Good afternoon.
The issues of corporate security are in front of any company in business,
regardless of what this company does.
These may be financial issues, production issues,
or services, but in any case, security issues are there and they need to be solved.
The construction of corporate security systems is individual,
depending on the company's features, on the threat,
but there are common approaches to the construction of corporate security systems.
It is built from separate subsystems, which are called information security,
personnel security, technical security, economic security, and other subsystems.
We will talk about these subsystems and how corporate security systems are built
in today's seminar.
The topic of our seminar is corporate security, organization and management practices.
The first topic we will discuss today is the general issues of building a corporate security system.
These are quite general issues, but without them you will not be able to build a corporate security system.
What does a person or a department that deals with corporate security issues usually start with?
The first thing they usually start with is the creation of a document.
The document can be called in different ways, I have encountered different names for this document.
The classic name of this document is the concept of ensuring the company's security.
This is a conceptual document, it is quite theoretical, but it is tied to the real company,
to the real threat, to the real object, subject, and so on.
This document is created, it is usually quite voluminous, it is about 30-40 pages.
In a mandatory order, it must be approved by the company's management.
This can be done either through an order or through a confirmation letter.
The next step is to implement this concept.
The implementation of this concept also starts with the creation of some documents.
Basically, these are either programs or plans.
The classic version is a classic plan.
It usually goes for a year, a list of events, responsibilities, money, deadlines, execution date, and so on.
In order to create this concept, it is necessary to determine some circular stones that exist.
What do I understand under the circular stones?
I will use this board and write it down.
These are objects.
The first thing used is the objects.
What is determined?
These are security objects.
It is quite difficult to ensure the security of everything that exists.
Therefore, some security objects are usually determined and then their security is carried out.
If we take a standard version of the organization, what do they usually understand under the objects?
The first thing is finance.
In any case, a company has certain financial resources.
It can be cash, cashless money, shares, bonds, and so on.
If this money is invested in the wrong place, if it is stolen, then it is clear that a company will have certain problems.
Therefore, finance is usually an object of security.
To a greater extent, this applies to organizations that work with other people's money.
To a lesser extent, it applies to companies that work with their own money.
Nevertheless, in almost all companies, financial resources and funds are security objects.
This can be staff.
In the vast majority of companies, with the exception of a few, people work.
If these people resign, get sick, get killed, or something happens to them, it is clear that the company will have problems.
Staff also tends to commit some illegal actions, so staff is an object of security.
It can be information resources.
There are no companies in business where all information resources are open.
All existing information resources are open.
As a rule, all information resources of a company are divided into two large groups.
These are open information resources and information resources with limited access.
I will tell you more about this in the topic of information security.
Now I will just emphasize that information is an object of security in the vast majority of cases.
It can be material values.
The vast majority of companies have certain material values.
This can be the case with virtual companies.
These are warehouses with ready-made products, tables, chairs, cars, buildings, etc.
It is also clear that if this is burned or taken away, then the company will have certain problems.
Basically, everything related to the protection of material values is a security block.
I want to say that in the vast majority of companies, material values are objects of security.
These can be business processes.
Any business activity consists of business processes.
This is what the company earns money on.
Basically, business processes are also objects of security.
This is not only the case with the security unit.
Many companies are engaged in the protection of business processes.
The security service or the employee on the line of corporate security has certain tasks.
This is the block called economic security, which we will talk about later.
This can be the reputation of the company.
Unfortunately, the technologies of black PR are well developed and well-rounded.
Therefore, the threats that come to the business from the side of black PR are real and must be protected.
Here you can include protection against the misuse of trademarks, if it is a patented brand.
Here you can include protection against fake products, which are also not uncommon in our market.
Therefore, security issues are often crossed out by the protection of the company's reputation.
You can suppress the company in different ways, you can do it economically, legally, illegally, and so on.
You can do it with the technologies of black PR.
This is an object of security.
There may be other security objects.
This is a standard approach to this problem.
It is necessary to assume that each company can define its own security object.
Now, the second round stone that must be determined before the concept of security is formed.
These are the subjects.
The subject of security.
Who will deal with the security issue?
If you determine a huge number of security objects, but do not determine who will deal with them, then it will be pointless.
In commercial structures, there are several levels of approach to security objects.
As I said in my opening statement, corporate security issues are in front of any company.
Therefore, in any case, a certain subject must be determined.
If we take the first level, I call it the bottom level, then this is the management.
Who is engaged in the first level?
This is the management.
In companies where security objects are not determined, the manager decides these issues.
I can't say that this is a good option, because the management has something to do with security issues.
But in some companies, mainly small companies, which do not have a lot of money to spend on security,
which do not have many threats, this level may be acceptable.
When the company grows, when the threats intensify, when there is something to lose,
when there is money to spend on security, then the second level is applied.
I will not write the word level.
This is a work in partnership.
I call it a work in partnership.
That is, a certain official who exists in the company jointly issues a security issue.
What official should I ask these questions to?
There are different approaches.
You can ask this question to some deputy director.
I often came across the head of the legal department, who asked these questions.
This is a work in partnership.
As with any work in partnership, it is not very effective, because it is very difficult to sit on two chairs,
to perform work in two directions at the same time is quite difficult.
Therefore, in cases when there is an opportunity, the third level is applied.
The third level is a separate position.
A separate position.
How this position will be called is not so important.
You can come across the practice of a security assistant,
maybe a deputy security director,
or maybe just some completely non-speaking position as a consultant or advisor.
The most important thing is that this is a separate position.
A person who occupies this position solves security issues.
That is, his main functional duties are to solve security issues.
It should be noted that one person cannot do serious work.
Therefore, this position is usually an organizing position.
That is, a person attracts organizations that provide these services in various areas of security.
And this person who occupies this position is responsible for this and coordinates this work.
This is a very common and widely applied option.
There are a variety of this option.
I would call it the fourth level.
This is a security council plus a separate position.
Security council.
Plus a separate position.
What is a security council?
Usually, it is a kind of advisory body that is formed in an organization according to its positions.
For example, all the heads of departments of a company are included in this security council.
It can periodically gather once a year, once a month, once a quarter, depending on the need.
It can develop a certain ideology of security, develop a certain direction of activity.
And a person who occupies this separate position will carry out these requirements and decisions that this security council produces.
This is also a fairly common and effective option.
There are levels 5 and 6.
The fifth level is the customer service.
The sixth level is the security service.
What are the advantages and disadvantages of the fifth and sixth levels?
What is customer service?
In fact, this is a classic outsourcing.
There are quite a few security holdings that provide these services.
The company becomes the basis of a certain contract for the maintenance of this holding.
And the security holding solves all the security issues of this company.
The security service is a structural division of the company.
There are certain features.
Licensing is required, a charter is required, which is agreed upon by the internal affairs agencies.
This division is not a legal entity, but the founder of the company in which this security service is created.
Perhaps, the security service is the best option that is possible in commercial structures.
In what cases do they usually create a security service?
First, the security service is a fairly expensive enterprise.
Therefore, the security service is necessary when there is a serious threat and when there is money to neutralize these threats.
The security service is usually created when there are different areas of activity.
I have encountered a security service that consists of one person, one boss.
It seems to me that this is quite pointless.
It is necessary to create a security service when there are different areas of activity.
It can be a security area, a detective area.
What is the advantage of the security service?
The advantage is that the information and activities of the company on the corporate security line do not go anywhere.
This is its own division and the information does not go anywhere.
Unlike outsourcing, where the information is initially supposed to be transferred to another organization.
Everything related to corporate security is closed, so it is not always convenient and good.
Outsourcing is a relatively inexpensive event.
It is much less expensive.
The disadvantage of outsourcing is that it is closely related to a certain contract.
The company with this security holding is a contract.
Only within this contract is interaction carried out.
The security service is its own structural division.
It can be asked some questions.
For example, what is the nature of the company?
What will you never do within the framework of outsourcing?
The disadvantage of the security service is that it requires a license.
It requires a consent from the internal affairs agency.
It requires a certain bureaucracy.
The inspectors from the licensing and authorization system of the Ministry of Internal Affairs will come.
This is a fairly bureaucratic system.
But this is a certain officio, this is a certain official relationship, including from the internal affairs agency.
What to choose?
The company must decide for itself.
There are no universal solutions applicable to the entire company.
It is necessary to look at the situation based on the threat, based on the money, based on the demand for expediency.
In some cases, it is necessary to create a security service.
In some cases, it may be limited to either a separate position,
or the establishment of a subscription service with some security holding.
This is the second point that you must determine for yourself
before creating this concept of security.
The next cornerstone that you must determine is the goals and tasks of security.
The goal is the same for all organizations that operate on the security line.
The goal is the stable functioning of the company.
As a rule, where the company functions steadily,
including the well-working security service,
where there are problems, some losses on the line of operation of the company,
including the poorly functioning security service.
The achievement of this goal is based on different tasks,
on the solution of different tasks.
It can be protection of information, it can be protection of business processes,
depending on the objects that we have determined for ourselves.
The goal of the security system
Now we will move on to the section that explains
what the system of corporate security should consist of,
that is, the structure of corporate security.
I draw it in the form of a wall that encircles the company,
a wall that holds the circular defense around the company,
a wall that consists of individual bricks, individual elements.
These bricks, these elements can be more or less,
but to some extent they should be present when you build a system,
namely, a system of corporate security.
It is clear that if there is not enough brick in the wall,
there will be a hole, then the construction of this wall will be ineffective.
Therefore, we will draw it as a brick wall in the form of bricks.
As a rule, when this wall is built,
one central brick is allocated,
that is, based on the threat, one large central brick is chosen.
And around it, the rest of the bricks are built.
The structure.
These bricks that I will draw now,
I draw them for the sake of simplicity of understanding.
Because it is clear that in real life they can find each other,
they can intersect, they can duplicate each other.
But nevertheless, the most important thing is that to some extent
all these bricks are present in this wall.
The first brick.
The first does not mean that it is the most important,
it will just be the first.
Because in every company, the main brick is naturally its own.
Let's call it information security.
Information security.
The term information security is quite fashionable.
It has been fashionable since 2000,
when the doctrine was adopted,
there is such information security of the Russian Federation.
What is information security?
It is the state of security of the company's information resources.
This is the ultimate goal,
this is the state of security.
This information security is achieved by a process
called information protection.
What is the complexity of this brick?
The complexity is that, first of all,
you need to look at what forms the information takes.
Because information can take many different forms.
These can be documents,
which can be on paper,
they can be on electronic media,
this can be electronic information.
Information can be in people's heads,
this is also information that needs to be protected.
Information can be in the form of industrial waste,
this is also some kind of information that needs to be protected.
When they start to create this brick,
which is called information security,
the first thing they do is to determine the information that needs to be protected,
and the second is to build the forms in which this information can be presented.
And they build protection based on these forms.
The complexity is that the vast majority of information resources
are now in electronic form,
so to speak, information security has a certain angle,
which is connected with the protection of information presented in electronic form.
We will talk in more detail in the section called information security.
How is it built?
What directions of building this brick are related to information security?
I will draw it here.
If the information is presented in the form of material or paper documents,
and in general in the form of documents,
then it is necessary to create a confidential production case.
One of the directions is a confidential production case.
A confidential production case.
The second direction is...
I have already said that a lot of information resources,
closed information resources are presented in electronic form.
The second direction is IT security,
that is, the protection of information resources presented in electronic form.
IT security.
Information, protection of information can be organized by measures.
Therefore, the so-called organizational measures are widely used.
Organizational measures.
Or events.
Under the organizational measures,
this is a fairly large set of events.
You can even include the restriction of access to information,
control and access regime in the company, video surveillance.
These are all some kind of organizational measures of information protection.
In organizational measures,
this is the breaking of information into parts.
These are also organizational measures of protection.
If you have some information,
a formula that you want to protect,
then it is broken into parts,
let's say, into several parts.
These parts are territorially divided.
That is, one part is located in one city,
the second part is located in another city,
the third part is located in a third city.
And different people have access to these parts.
Therefore, the criminal, in order to get all this formula,
all this information,
has to collect it from different people
and from territorially divided objects.
Which is naturally much more difficult
than if this formula was in one place.
This is a classic division of information into parts,
a classic organizational principle of protection.
This was used quite widely before.
And now, if we remember how the secret of Coca-Cola was protected,
then one of the methods was in the 1920s or 1930s,
it was an organizational one.
This formula was really divided into three parts.
Each of these parts had access to only a certain number of people.
Here, the direction is legal measures.
Legal measures.
In order to create information security,
this block called information security,
legal measures can also be applied.
For example, if you create a commercial secret regime,
that is, if, having read the law of commercial secrecy,
you decided to create a commercial secret regime,
then you must apply some legal measures.
Approval of a list of information,
creation of certain instructions,
these are legal measures.
I will stop at technical measures.
These are technical measures.
Technical measures.
These are technical measures for the closure of various channels of information leakage.
Basically, this is protection against industrial espionage.
In order to ensure that information does not go through
some technical solutions on technical channels.
And here I would probably add another point.
These are personnel measures.
Personnel measures.
That is, information is in people's heads in any case,
and to conduct some events,
that is, personnel measures,
so that people who know your commercial secrets,
know your classified information,
so that they do not disclose it.
This is a whole complex called personnel measures and personnel events.
I will tell you more about them when we talk about personnel security.
So, the first brick.
The second brick.
Let's call it personnel security.
Personnel security.
So, threats, I already said, I will remind you a little more,
which come from a person.
There are basically three groups of threats.
This is the enforcement of illegal actions,
this is the disclosure of information,
and this is the enforcement of incompetent actions.
Therefore, basically, all events aimed at personnel security,
they are divided into three large groups.
These are measures related to protection
from committing illegal actions.
Committing illegal actions.
Well, illegal actions, of course,
are those actions that violate certain rules of law.
First of all, these are actions that fall under the articles of the Criminal Code,
the Administrative Code, the Labor Code, and so on.
This is protection from disclosure of information.
From disclosure of information.
In principle, if you go into detail,
disclosure of information is a private case of committing illegal actions.
But in personnel security, this area is distinguished separately,
simply because it is quite relevant and has a certain specificity.
This is, of course, disclosure of confidential information,
that is, information with limited access.
And the third area is protection from incompetent actions.
Protection from incompetent actions.
This is not really a question of the security service.
As a rule, protection from incompetent actions
does not take part in the security service,
although sometimes it is involved in this direction.
The threat coming from this direction is really real,
because you can build a very powerful,
very modern, good security system,
but incompetent people will simply ruin the company,
and whatever security you build, it will be completely ineffective.
A little bit about the peculiarity of this brick,
which is called personnel security.
First of all, this is the biggest,
and as a rule the most problematic,
and the weakest link in the entire security system.
The vast majority of problems that the company has
are related to personnel security.
There is a certain statistic,
that according to the disclosure of information,
about 80-85% of the information,
the classified information,
is either used by personnel security,
or by incorrect documents.
And only about 15% of the information
is used by other means,
like industrial espionage, hackers, and so on.
Why does this happen?
It is clear, because the use of industrial espionage equipment,
well, first of all, its use is immediately
subject to the corresponding articles of the Criminal Code,
which is not good for the customer.
And second, the equipment of industrial espionage
is quite expensive.
To get the same information,
you can use a much simpler,
more accessible method.
Well, to take the right person to a restaurant,
to drink vodka, then wine, then beer,
and get the same information.
Without violating any articles of the Criminal Code.
We do not take the scrimmage component.
And this method of obtaining information
can be much cheaper
than the use of industrial espionage equipment.
Therefore, as a rule, everything related to
personnel safety is quite relevant.
The peculiarity of this brick is that
it is quite stable,
that is, it changes very slowly.
Everything related to personnel safety is psychology.
Psychology of people changes very slowly.
The methods of influence of one person on another,
as they were in ancient Rome,
probably remain the same.
The same bribery, the same blackmail,
the same insult.
Maybe some torture left the first place,
but the second or the third.
And personnel safety issues
are solved approximately the same
regardless of what the company does.
That is, whether it is financers,
whether it is manufacturers,
whether it is the service sector,
personnel safety issues are solved approximately the same.
But the psychology of people working in different organizations
is approximately the same.
Unlike, say, some technical solutions
that can change very quickly
and which are built individually
depending on what kind of company.
This is personnel safety.
This is a brick called personnel safety.
There is a brick,
let's call it the third brick.
It is also related to the human factor.
The third brick is personnel safety.
Personal safety.
Personal safety is mainly applied
to the first persons of the company
in order for them to work,
make some decisions.
These decisions were provided
with a certain level of safety.
Basically, everything that concerns
personal safety is built in three directions.
This is physical protection.
Physical protection.
This is legal protection.
Legal protection.
This is psychological protection.
Psychological protection.
Legal protection.
Physical protection is the work of bodyguards.
This is the provision of body safety.
There are a lot of problems
related to the legal side.
Unfortunately, according to our legislation,
bodyguards work, they exist.
Unfortunately, there are no bodyguards in the legal side.
When I will talk about the principles
and the principle of legality,
I will talk about it in detail.
Legal protection is the legal provision
of decision-making by the company's management.
Basically, this is the work of lawyers.
If the lawyers have done poorly,
it is the work of lawyers.
This is the legal provision
of decision-making by the company's first person.
Psychological protection is the work of psychologists.
This is the psychological provision
of decision-making
so that people who make decisions
make decisions in a state of psychological stability,
psychological balance,
so that there is no decision-making
in a state of some kind of effect.
Basically, this brick is built
in these three directions.
Of course, it can be further painted
as some kind of safe food,
safe swimming and everything else.
But usually this is not done,
it is quite expensive.
And in the best case,
in the maximum version of commercial structures,
personal security is built
in these three directions.
The fourth brick
is called economic security.
Economic security.
I have already said that economic security
is basically the security of business processes
that take place in the company.
This brick is built,
which is called economic security,
depending on the business processes.
I also focus on economic security.
Economic security is not only
the security service,
but many departments
that are present in the company.
If we build economic security
from the position of the security service,
then, as a rule,
this is the business intelligence.
Business intelligence.
This is the direction
of the security service.
What is business intelligence?
I will describe it in two words.
There are different terms.
There is the concept of business intelligence,
there is the concept of competitive intelligence,
there is the concept of corporate intelligence,
business intelligence.
In fact, this is information analytics.
These are two directions.
This is the collection of information,
this is its analysis.
There is an operational direction,
but in fact, this is information analytics.
From the point of view of economic risks,
from the point of view of checking
the compatibility of the partner,
and everything else.
There is a direction,
the so-called economic management,
and the minimization of economic risks.
Management and minimization.
Economic risks.
This is not always done by the security service,
although it is attracted to solving this problem.
For example, to minimize economic risks
from the point of view of duplicating
some economic processes.
If there is only one raw material supplier,
then it is clear that this is an unstable system,
and from the point of view of security,
these are risks, these are threats.
As soon as this supplier is lost,
the supply of some materials is lost.
There should be duplication.
Supply duplication,
supplier duplication,
consumer duplication, and so on.
What is the security service doing?
Basically, this is protection against fraud.
Protection against fraud.
Here we are talking about fraud
not from the point of view of the company staff,
but from the point of view of other organizations
and fraud from the point of view of other legal entities.
Well, maybe, for example,
protection against hostile absorption.
Hostile absorption.
This is also a fairly fashionable term,
protection against hostile absorption.
What is hostile absorption?
This is the control over the company's assets
in the face of the company's owner,
the company's management.
There are different schemes.
There are white schemes,
there are gray schemes,
there are black schemes.
Security services are involved in solving issues
to protect against hostile absorption.
I draw your attention to the fact that they are involved
because many issues are related to lawyers,
many issues are related to the company's management.
Basically, this is informational work,
this is a relationship with state bodies,
including the police,
to protect against hostile absorption.
This is physical protection of the building,
so that the company does not physically gain access
to the company's territory, and so on.
Now, in general, protection against hostile absorption
is quite relevant,
although, in my opinion,
this peak has already passed in Moscow,
now it is slightly shifting to the regions.
This is already a secondary redistribution of property on the market.
This is for economic security.
There is a direction of technical security.
Basically, technical security,
these bricks,
are divided into three large groups,
into three components.
This is engineering and technical security,
this is technical security,
and this is IT security.
The fifth brick.
This is engineering and technical security.
Technical security.
What is engineering and technical security?
Engineering and technical security,
in fact, is engineering and technical equipment of the territory.
Depending on the territory,
depending on the object,
engineering and technical security
is built in different directions.
Although there are some common approaches,
some common points,
which are connected with measures.
I will draw like this, as I usually do.
This is fire safety.
Fire safety.
This is relevant for any company,
because every day something burns down somewhere.
Fire protection,
fire safety,
is also one of the components of corporate security.
At any exhibition,
at a security technology forum,
there will be stands dedicated to fire safety.
Here it is clear what needs to be done,
because there are certain requirements from firefighters,
these requirements are desirable to be met.
Now there are a lot of measures for fire safety,
starting with fire paint, doors, stickers, fire extinguishers,
and so on.
There are a lot of measures.
They just need to be implemented.
There is a video surveillance system.
The installation of video surveillance systems
is an integral part of engineering and technical security.
The most effective is a combined video surveillance system.
Some video cameras are installed openly,
some are installed secretly.
There are some legal issues
where video surveillance ends,
where surveillance as a operational event ends,
and where surveillance as a security television begins.
In general, this mechanism is well developed,
and video surveillance is widely used.
There are a lot of companies that provide these services.
Here, too, it is clear what needs to be done,
based on a specific task and a specific goal that you want to achieve.
The next area is the control and pass mode.
Control and pass mode.
It is clear that if outsiders visit your enterprise,
then you don't have to talk about serious security.
Therefore, the control and pass mode
is a component of corporate security
and a component of engineering and technical security.
There are a lot of technical solutions of the control and pass mode.
These are widely used ASCUT systems,
automated access control systems.
They are used when you have a large number of people,
more than 300-400 people at the enterprise,
large factories.
These ASCUT systems are very effective.
In small companies, where there are few people,
some simplified manual control and pass modes are used.
The control and pass mode involves not only the control of people
who enter the enterprise,
but also the creation of zones based on the principle of confidentiality.
There are some zones in the form of floors,
where only certain employees can enter.
It can be for a certain employee,
it can be for a certain time,
that is, you can be there for a certain time,
and you can't be there for a certain time.
All this is decided by the control and pass mode.
There is a measure, there is a direction,
which is called perimeter protection.
Naturally, where these perimeters exist.
First of all, it is relevant in those enterprises,
which produce something valuable and useful for employees.
For example, a meat plant, a liquor and vodka plant.
The security of the perimeters can be relevant.
Some consulting companies,
that is, a company that represents the service sector,
these problems can be put aside and not be so relevant.
There can be engineering and technical security.
These are the most diverse alarm systems.
Alarm systems for finding, opening windows, doors, etc.
There is a very large variety of them.
In principle, there is a methodological feature.
The distribution of these alarm systems is given.
Engineering and technical security can be in some other direction.
It depends on the object.
This is engineering and technical equipment territory.
This brick.
And the other two bricks.
I will also focus on them.
The sixth brick.
This is technical security.
Technical security is mainly a protection from information leakage channels.
I talked a little about it in the section on information security.
But very often this brick is allocated as a separate component.
From a physical point of view,
there are three channels of information transmission.
This is the acoustic channel.
What is said can be heard.
This is the visual channel of information leakage.
What happens can be seen.
This is the electromagnetic channel of information leakage.
Where there are electrical signals,
where information is transmitted through electrical signals,
there is electromagnetic radiation,
which has a tendency to pass through different barriers.
It can be recorded.
This is also like a channel of information leakage.
The vast majority of the equipment of industrial espionage that exists,
it uses any of these channels of information leakage.
Therefore, technical security is built on the protection of these three channels of information leakage.
Protection from the acoustic channel of information leakage.
Protection from the visual channel.
And protection from PEMIN.
There is such a term.
PEMIN is a side electromagnetic radiation.
Now, in general, there are many companies on the market that provide these services.
Basically, they are positioned in the market of information protection.
Companies that, from a technical point of view,
not from a personnel point of view, not from a legal point of view,
but from a technical point of view,
protect these channels of information leakage.
And the last brick on which I will dwell is the seventh brick.
This is IT security.
IT security.
What is the situation?
Now this brick is gaining more and more popularity and more and more importance.
What is IT security?
This is the state of security of the company's information resources presented in electronic form.
The complexity of this brick.
Firstly, it changes very quickly.
Unlike, for example, personnel security, which I mentioned, it changes very quickly.
Literally every day there are new technical solutions,
new threats, new viruses, new protection and everything else.
A person who deals with IT security should sit on it every day.
That is, to do IT security, just by reading a book or going to an exhibition,
this is unrealistic, this is pointless, unfortunately, no one does this.
Therefore, IT security should be a separate, well-trained person who will constantly do this.
The difficulty is that this IT guy who deals with IT security is a thing in itself.
It is very difficult to understand what he does, to understand an unprepared person.
There have been cases, this is a serious problem,
when if an IT security person is subordinate to the head of the security service,
then the head of the security service may not understand what the IT security person is doing.
Just because he does not have enough experience, or even education.
Therefore, unfortunately, this is a certain thing in itself.
There are approaches, personnel approaches to select a specialist in IT security,
organizational approaches, what he can do, what he cannot do.
There is an audit of IT security, which is desirable to apply,
including for control of its IT security.
Basically, IT security is solved in three directions.
This is all about network protection.
That is, the protection of information resources, which are in the company, in network solutions.
This is the protection of autonomous information resources,
or information resources presented on autonomous carriers.
Protection of autonomous information.
Protection of information.
And this is the protection of information that is transmitted through scattered objects.
That is, when you need to transmit information from one city to another,
using the Internet or some other information systems.
That is, the protection of information when transmitted between scattered objects.
Protection of information when transmitted.
What should I pay attention to?
If we consider some trends, what is the trend?
The information resources of the company are now about 50 to 50.
50% are presented in material form, in the form of documents, papers.
And 50% are presented in electronic form.
If we take 10 years ago, then basically all information resources were presented on paper,
that is, on material carriers.
I think that in 10 years the main type of information resources,
the main type of carriers on which there will be information resources,
will be electronic.
That is, everything will be presented in electronic form.
Material carriers will probably be in the form of some archives or duplication.
If we look at this problem from the point of view of security,
from the point of view of protection,
then what can be predicted and what can be looked at?
Look at what are the trends.
If we take some paper document,
how is it protected?
In principle, it is protected only by access protection.
The maximum you can do with it is lock it in some safe.
Put an armed guard to the safe.
All this is in some controlled territory.
That is, you protect access to this document.
Any security system is initially considered imperfect and imperfect,
because in any case, all this can be hacked.
As soon as the safe is hacked and the document is obtained,
this document is presented in an open form.
That is, we do not have any secret inscriptions,
secret ink, disappearing, and so on.
They are there, but in everyday life they are usually not used.
If we take an electronic carrier,
that is, some kind of electronic array of information,
then the direction of protection is built on two strategic lines.
That is, protection is built directly on access,
in the form of access restrictions,
in the form of electronic identifiers,
in the form of some kind of biometric identity recognition systems.
And the second direction is protection of the document itself.
What cannot be done with paper.
The protection of the document itself is mainly done with cryptography,
that is, cryptographic means of protection.
If in a simplified version,
some information is taken,
a kilobyte or megabyte of information is divided into 10 parts,
all this is done in a very simplified version.
These parts are re-piled up,
the tenth part is on the second,
the second part is on the fourth,
the fourth part is on the first.
Thus, a certain encryption of the document occurs.
The value of the document is not lost from this.
That is, it is possible to decrypt in the future,
that is, to put these parts in place,
and the value of the document will be preserved.
That is, there will be the same document.
What cannot be done with paper.
You cannot tear it,
re-pile it,
preserving the value of the document.
This is possible,
but the value of the document naturally disappears from this.
Therefore, the direction of protection of information resources
presented in the electronic form is more modern,
and can be done more perfectly,
because it will go in different strategic directions.
If we talk about the destruction of documents,
if you have 10 volumes of materials that need to be urgently destroyed,
and they are presented on paper,
then you will not eat them,
tear them,
and destroy them in a short time.
If you have the same 10 volumes of materials,
presented in the electronic form,
then you can do it all
in a matter of seconds,
and you will be guaranteed from not being restored.
Even from this point of view,
from the point of view of the destruction of documents,
electronic documents,
they are much more convenient to work with,
and to a greater extent they can be protected.
So, the walls and bricks,
they are already individual,
depending on what the company does.
That is, if you have some kind of factory,
which produces something
and some waste is poured into the river,
then, probably,
environmental safety issues will be relevant.
There is some kind of sea port,
environmental safety issues
could be relevant.
But, as a rule, in the standard version,
these are just the classic bricks,
the classic subsystems
for the construction of the operating safety system.
Now, at one more point,
I would like to draw your attention
to the principles that must be observed
when organizing
the corporate safety system.
There are quite a lot of them.
At some points,
I will focus more on the details,
at some I will just talk about
the fact that they exist.
But, I say again,
the principles are necessary for the implementation.
The principles.
The first principle
I will probably stop at
is the principle of legality.
Legality.
I will not call for
compliance with legality,
this is not the topic of my seminar.
Just keep in mind
that everything you do
on the corporate safety line
is always clear whether you do it legally
or illegally.
The reason is simple and banal.
The legislation on corporate safety
is, unfortunately,
very imperfect.
The main law on which
corporate safety lives
is the law on private security
and detective activity.
The law that was adopted
in 1992,
that is, before the Constitution was adopted,
before the law on weapons,
on the police, on the State Security,
on security, and so on.
The law was adopted as a transitional law.
It was clear in the early 90s
that the state was not able
to protect the emerging business.
It was adopted, I would say,
quite a political decision
that corporate security
would be the direction of business.
I note that this is a political decision
because the law
on the protection of the business
is not a political decision.
For example, in Belarus,
corporate security
does not exist in the form
that it exists in Russia.
It is a state-owned business.
It was decided that
corporate security
would be the direction of business.
Naturally, it was necessary
to create some temporary rules
for this business.
And this law was created
on the private security
and detective activity.
This law was temporary.
It was written on the knee.
Unfortunately, there is nothing
more permanent than temporary.
This law has existed
since 1992.
It has undergone changes,
but nevertheless it exists.
In general, we have very few laws
that have remained since 1992.
As a rule, all the legislation
in the early 90s has already been rewritten.
Therefore,
unfortunately,
the law on corporate security
is not perfect
from the perspective of the regulatory base.
I have already given examples
of bodyguards.
We have bodyguards.
There is even such an organization
as the National Association of Bodyguards.
But they do not exist.
You can contact the CHOP,
which provides services
for the physical protection of people,
that is, for the work of bodyguards.
CHOP will give you bodyguards.
But do not be surprised
that the contract that will be concluded
will be concluded on the protection
of material values.
According to our law,
there is protection of life
and health of people,
but a bodyguard,
if he is protected
by the contract of life and health of a person,
can only be armed
with special means,
such as a whistle, a baton, and so on.
It is clear that no respected businessman
wants his life to be protected
by a person with a whistle and a baton.
It is clear and obvious.
Therefore, all the contracts that are concluded
are on the protection of material values.
That is, what is on a person,
such as a gold chain,
a watch, a briefcase
with documents,
is located near a person.
In reality, this is the work of a bodyguard.
Although according to the documents,
this is the protection of material values.
It is clear that if, God forbid,
a bodyguard uses firearms,
if he kills someone,
he will have a lot of serious problems.
Therefore,
unfortunately,
the legislation is very imperfect.
Many questions arise
about the limitation
of the termination of
operational events,
where the events
that are held by the security service begin.
Can the security service
listen to corporate telephone
and negotiate with employees?
Where is the video surveillance system installed?
Can the video surveillance system
be installed in the toilets or not?
There are a lot of questions,
including legal ones.
There are some algorithms,
some solutions.
But keep in mind
that everything you do
on the corporate security line
is a very thin line
between legality and illegality.
This is in relation to legality.
The second principle
that is desirable to be implemented
is the complexity.
Everything you do
on the corporate security line
must be done in a complex.
Complexity implies
ensuring the safety
of all objects
that you have identified
and the complexity implies
ensuring the security
of all objects
that you have identified
and the complexity implies
ensuring the safety
of all objects.
I have personally encountered
a case when a person,
a company manager,
installed a cryptographic
protection of computer information
about 10 years ago.
Nevertheless,
it was not effective
because the documents
that he protected
with cryptography
were printed
and were lying on the tables,
under the tables,
in the garbage bins,
etc.
It was clear
that the principle of complexity
was violated.
It was ineffective
and unwise
to install expensive
systems of the SCIS
and the so-called
cryptographic protection
of the computer information
in the database.
Therefore,
try to apply
this principle of complexity.
There is a principle
of temporariness.
The principle of temporariness
implies that
everything that you do
in the field of security
should be done
in advance.
You should always take
one step
towards the potential
violator.
There is a saying
that it is too late
to drink borscht
when the kidneys fall off.
It is very relevant
in the field of security.
As soon as something
happens,
you start thinking
about it.
It is based on experience.
Unfortunately,
it is not always
the case.
The principle of temporariness
implies that
everything that you do
in the field of security
should be done
in advance.
There is a saying
that it is too late
to drink borscht
when the kidneys fall off.
Unfortunately,
it is not always the case.
The next principle
I would like to point out
is the principle of temporariness.
The principle of temporariness
implies that
everything that you do
in the field of security
should be done
in advance.
If we say that bodyguards
guard the body for 20 minutes,
and then drink
beer for 20 minutes,
then we do not have to
guard this person.
If this person
is guarded for 8 hours
at work,
and then he goes to the next yard
to take out the garbage in his slippers,
then we do not have to
guard this person.
Therefore, everything that will be done
in the field of corporate security
should be done in advance.
As a rule, the principle of temporariness
or the problems with the principle of temporariness
or the breakdown of this principle
are associated with a human factor.
There is a guard
in the face,
for example,
the head of the security service.
When this head of the security service
goes around, checks everything,
the system works.
The head of the security service
leaves,
goes to a seminar,
the system starts to malfunction.
The principle of temporariness
can be violated in the time factor.
During the day, everything works well,
at night, when there is no one,
everything can work badly.
It can be violated by a natural factor.
On the street, let's say, 0 degrees,
everything works well,
on the street, minus 30,
everything starts to work badly
and the equipment fails.
The principle of corporative security
is based on this.
Everything you do should work continuously.
There is a principle of activity.
I will not dwell on it.
There is a famous saying
that the best defense
is an attack.
Therefore,
it is about
everything you do
in the case of corporate security,
it should be done actively.
The principle of systematic plannedness
says that you should create
a system.
There should not be
individual elements of corporate security,
but a system of corporate security.
Everything that is done
in the line of corporate security
should be done in a certain way.
There is a very relevant
and problematic principle
related to the principle of purposefulness.
The principle of purposefulness
assumes that
the money you invest
in the system of corporate security
will not allow you
to make a profit.
The management of the company
understands this very clearly.
You have a profit.
If you invest
in the development of the production,
it will allow you to make a profit.
If you invest
in security,
you will not make a profit.
You can only get protection
from losses.
Therefore,
losses that can be made
if you do not spend
money on security are always considered.
When the question arises
how much money to spend on security,
it is always based on losses.
If the loss is equal to 100 rubles,
it makes no sense to spend
1000 rubles on security.
This is often the case.
I gave an example
of a store.
You can reduce the theft
to a very small amount,
but the money you invest
in the development of the equipment
will be economically ineffective.
The losses will be much less
than the money you will spend
on the technical equipment
of the store.
There is a principle
that is widely used in security.
This is the duplication principle.
The duplication principle.
Let's recall an old joke.
Then it turned into a plot from Yarolash.
When a little boy
was asked to buy two tickets,
his grandmother asked him
why he was buying two tickets.
He said that he would go to the controller
and lose one ticket.
He would have a second ticket.
The grandmother asked him
if he would lose a second ticket.
He replied that he had a production ticket.
It is right to understand
that some critical things
must be duplicated.
This makes the system expensive.
The system with duplicated subsystems
is more expensive,
but in some critical
important things
it justifies it.
If we take a space industry,
there is duplication
up to 5-7 times.
Up to 5-7 blocks
can take on functions
of some other blocks.
Just because it is space,
you can't send
a block or a part there.
The duplication principle
is widely applied
in corporate security.
For example, in IT security
it is necessary to duplicate
information resources,
create backups, etc.
In the technical direction
it is also widely applied.
For example, the communication system,
the main reserve channel,
some fire safety sensors,
the main one for smoke and heat,
it is widely applied.
We often face
the question of
duplication of information resources.
It is clear that
if there is a fire,
all information resources are destroyed,
then the company faces
a big problem
if there is no duplication system.
There are different algorithms.
It can be a remote server
or a bank cell,
or some other options.
The main thing is
that the duplicated information resources
are not near the main server.
If there is a fire,
it destroys
the main information resources.
The duplication principle
is widely applied
in all aspects
of corporate security.
The specialization principle
is quite simple.
You can do some things
in the corporate security
by yourself,
by reading books,
by attending seminars.
Some aspects
of corporate security
should be trusted
to the specialists,
to the narrow specialists
of your field.
The specialization principle
is about
IT security.
I have already mentioned it.
There should be a specialist
who is working on it every day.
You can search
for industrial espionage equipment
in your office
by yourself
by buying some non-linear locators.
I would not recommend
doing it
because the equipment
is quite expensive.
You can search
for industrial espionage equipment
by yourself.
You can work on it
You can buy
some equipment
by yourself.
It is better to use
the services of the specialists
in these things.
However, some things
can be done by yourself
in the corporate security.
There is a concept
of interaction and coordination.
This is the principle.
Interaction
and coordination.
First of all,
this principle
applies to the security services.
The security services
should coordinate
their activities.
It is related to the interaction
of the security services
with the security services
of the police.
They have to
interact with each other.
There is a certain
relationship
between the security services
and the internal affairs.
This principle
applies
to the interaction
of the security services
and other companies.
This is the principle
of interaction and coordination.
There is another interesting principle.
I will talk about it.
It is the principle of improvement.
Improvement.
What does
this principle say?
The corporate security system
that you have created
should be checked
from the point of view
of improvement.
First of all,
it applies to two aspects.
The first one is
the technical aspects.
Technical issues.
The second one is
the threats.
The technical issues.
You can equip
your office, your department,
your company
with the latest technology
in the field of corporate security.
In a year or a year and a half,
you will find out
that all this has become
hopelessly outdated
and you need to change it.
The technology is moving
very fast.
There was analog television,
now there is digital.
There was one resolution,
now there is another.
The technical means of attack
and the security of IT
are changing very fast.
Something new happens
almost every day.
Every month,
new products are released.
The principle of improvement
is checked from the point of view
of technical issues.
It also needs to be prepared
by the management.
Not every manager understands
why he has to spend money
on technical reequipment.
It happens very fast.
And the improvement
is from the point of view of threats.
As I said,
the protection is built
on the basis of real threats.
The threats can change.
The corporate security system
needs to be improved
from the point of view of the threats.
For example,
to make it clear,
a control-missile regime
is created in the company.
The threat is determined
by the threat.
What kind of threat?
It can be a threat
from a hooligan
or a drunk person
who wants to enter the facility.
It is clear.
The protection system
is built on the basis of these threats.
If the threats are different,
for example,
you defend yourself
from a terrorist
and you have to build
a completely different control-missile regime.
Because the first option
will not be effective.
The improvement from the point of view of threats
is not necessarily
an increase in the system.
It can be a certain weakening of the system.
If the threats are gone,
there is no point in spending a lot of money
on security.
The improvement from the point of view of threats
can be a weakening of the system.
There is a principle
that is also quite interesting.
It is the centralization of the control.
The principle of centralization
of the control.
What does it mean?
The system of corporate security
should be subordinate to someone
and close to someone.
The strict rule and strict requirement
is the subordination
of the security department
to the first person of the company.
It can be the general director,
the owner of the company,
or someone else.
But in no case is security
subordinated to top managers,
to other departments
or not to the first person of the company.
The difficult question
arises when
the owner of the company,
the owner of the company
and the general director
are different people.
Who should the security department
close to?
There are no ready-made final decisions here,
because the question is quite slippery.
In the vast majority of cases,
the security department's chief
subordinates to the company's owner
in strategic matters,
and the general director
in current matters.
Why is there such a division?
Because the company's owner
can set tasks for the security department
in relation to certain control
or certain actions
in relation to the general director.
For example,
the general director
is also a hired person.
Although the question is very slippery,
it is solved in different ways.
There are no ready-made solutions here.
There are several principles
related to the human factor.
The principle of minimizing
the use of the human factor.
Minimizing
the use
of
the human factor.
From the point of view of security,
I have already said that the weakest link
is the human factor.
Therefore, as soon as the security system
is strongly tied to the human factor,
it is always bad.
Therefore, they try to make
the system not tied to the human factor.
This is also related to the leadership
of the security service.
The system should not be tied
to a specific head of the security service.
This is related to some technical solutions,
to some other solutions,
so that as few questions as possible
are closed on the human factor.
The technique is clear,
predictable,
logical,
and predictable.
A person is usually not logical,
unpredictable,
and unpredictable.
There are also many ways
to influence a person.
Therefore, everything that is tied
to the human factor is the weakest link.
There is a very interesting principle.
There is such a concept as the golden section of security.
The golden section of security.
What is it?
Usually, it is drawn in the form of a triangle,
where there are such parameters as
price,
speed,
and security in the corners.
When these three parameters are analyzed,
it is necessary to assume that
you will not be able to choose
all three parameters at the same time.
Usually, they choose
some two priority parameters.
You can make the system safe
and make it cheap,
but it will take a long time to create.
You can make the system safe,
you can make the system fast,
but it will be very expensive.
You can make the system fast,
You can make the system cheap,
you can make it fast,
but it will be unsafe.
Therefore, initially,
when this system of corporate security is created,
they try to determine
these three parameters.
Somewhere, let's say,
some priority parameters are chosen.
Two priority parameters
are chosen from these three.
Here, this golden section
is, of course,
individual for each company.
That is, for each company
some two priority parameters are given.
The main ones must be chosen,
and the rest must be sacrificed.
There are several more principles
that are applied.
The principle of personal responsibility
is also related to the human factor.
is clear.
Here I would pay attention
not so much to the severity of the punishment,
if we are talking about responsibility,
but to the inviolability of the punishment.
That is, people should know
that for committing some illegal actions
they are waiting for punishment.
As a rule,
observing the formation
of the corporate security system,
I can say that
the formation of all corporate security systems
is usually carried out
through some kind of punishment.
That is,
corporate security systems are created,
and usually after that
there is a certain rejection
from the employees of the company.
Because any security
is a certain restriction
of the employee's authority,
a certain complication
of their life at work, and so on.
After that,
people begin to be outraged,
people begin to not fulfill
the requirements that the security system
builds.
People are first convinced,
then, as a rule,
punished because the conviction
in most cases is inactive.
And in the future,
the system will start working.
That is, it goes through punishment.
In relation to personal responsibility,
such demonstrative events are widely used,
starting with public punishments,
ending with public,
so to speak,
attraction to responsibility,
including criminal responsibility,
and the consequences associated
with this.
That is,
when people understand
that for, say,
violation of some rules,
for committing an action
that falls under the Criminal Code,
the court can bring to justice,
this is a fairly effective thing.
Then, as a rule,
people behave very calmly and quietly.
The next point
is
the principle of restriction of authority.
The principle of restriction of authority.
I have already mentioned
the principle of restriction of authority.
In the classical version,
people should have access
only to the information
they need
to perform their work,
and should have
small powers,
and there should be maximum control.
The problem is mainly when
the powers are maximum,
and the control is minimal.
When the system is built
to the maximum,
the problem does not arise.
There are a few more principles
that are quite important.
The principle of multilaterality.
What does this principle say?
It says that
any security system
does not guarantee
100% security.
Any security line
can be overcome.
It's just about time,
money, expediency, etc.
The more security lines there are,
the more reliable
the system is.
For example,
the security line
is used in security events.
If you have a separate room
and you need to provide
security for this room
in some building,
then here you can
create only one security line.
There are bars,
metal doors on the windows,
a man with a gun,
and so on.
If you have a separate mansion
with adjacent territory,
security events
are usually built
according to the ring principle.
There is a perimeter
that guards the dogs,
sensors,
alarm systems, etc.
There is a second security line,
for example,
a building with metal doors,
bars, etc.
There is a third security line,
which is the security of the floor.
The fourth security line
is the security of the room.
It is a classic multi-border
security principle.
In IT security,
the multi-border principle
is widely used.
For example,
you need to enter a password
to enter a computer,
to enter an information system,
you need to show
some electronic identifiers,
to enter a particularly
classified file,
to make your fingerprint,
or an iris of the eye,
or something else.
This is also a classic multi-border
security principle.
There is a principle
that is often violated,
it is the principle of equality.
The principle of equality
says that the system
of security
is determined
by the strength
of the least protected element.
If you have 10 windows
in a simplified version,
you put a very powerful
grill on 9 windows,
and on the 10th window
there is no grill at all,
then the strength of these 9 grills
will be absolutely pointless
and useless, because the criminal
will climb into this 10th window.
In practice, this is very common,
when there are very powerful
security peaks in this system,
and there are some holes
through which the criminal
can easily penetrate.
Remember one of the strict
security rules,
the strength of the security system
is generally estimated
by the strength of the
least protected element.
In life, you often encounter this.
There are two more principles,
I will draw them here.
There is a principle of psychological
impact on the offender.
What is it about?
By the way, this is a very cheap
implementation principle,
you go to the store very often,
you see a sticker,
the object is guarded by the police,
it is difficult to say
whether it is guarded or not,
but it protects you from some
levels of threat.
Attention is being filmed by a hidden
video camera in stores,
there are also such stickers.
What is it?
These stickers pursue different
purposes, including a certain
psychological impact.
If you put these stickers on,
all your problems will be solved,
at least it will protect you
from some levels of threat.
At the household level,
you often encounter this,
you walk along the country side,
you see a sign that
there is an angry dog in the yard.
This is a psychological impact
on a potential offender.
It is advisable not to overdo it,
because sometimes,
for example, stickers are placed
and the alarm is set,
and it determines the brand.
For example, Clifford,
Alligator, and so on.
It is pointless to talk about
the specific model of the alarm
installed on this car,
because the attackers know
all these systems,
the anti-theft system,
and it is pointless to inform them
in advance what is installed there.
Nevertheless, the principle of psychological
impact is widely used
and it works very well.
You can install a video camera
on your object,
so that it can be seen.
And surprisingly,
you will find that
the number of people
who want to climb over
this fence will sharply decrease
due to the psychological impact.
Sometimes documents are made
in such a way
to apply this principle
to the psychological impact.
There is a mode of commercial secrecy.
If you want to create it,
you need to make sure
that the employees take on
the obligation to keep
your commercial secrets.
This obligation can be
either through a labor agreement
where a separate record is made,
or through a separate agreement
or a separate agreement.
A separate agreement
is more effective,
both psychologically and
through psychological impact.
When a person reads
and sees that the articles
of the Criminal Code,
Administrative Code,
Labor Code,
are flashing,
this is much more effective
from the psychological point of view
than just a simple phrase
in a labor agreement.
Therefore, pay attention
to the psychological impact
of the law.
There is a principle
of combining
publicity and conspiracy.
This is the last principle
I will talk about.
It is about
everything you do
in the corporate security line
is usually divided into
two large groups.
The first is
an open event,
that is, you do not hide
what is happening.
The second is a hidden event.
Hiding everything
that is done in the corporate security line
is unrealistic,
it is pointless and expensive.
Therefore, everything is divided
into two large groups.
In particular,
some checks
that are carried out in companies
are usually divided into two groups.
These are open checks
and hidden checks.
There are planned checks,
check of the confidential
business of production,
everyone can know that
a check will come.
There are unplanned checks,
but they are not determined.
Unplanned checks
are like a sword
that hangs over a person
and he knows that
some of the things
he has to do
can always be checked
in the security line.
Unplanned checks
usually show the true
position of the case.
Planned checks are more
from the point of view
of the organization,
and unplanned checks are more
from the point of view of real control.
These are the principles.
What do you think about the
construction of a corporate security system?
I would like to finish
the first topic
about the construction
of a corporate security system.
I would like to
pay attention to
the following points.
The security system
is effective
when a pyramid is built.
I mean a barricade.
On the one hand,
there is a personnel,
security service workers,
management of the company.
On the other hand,
there are potential
violations of the barricade.
When there is a barricade,
the system is built effectively.
In practice,
such a rigid barricade
does not usually arise.
There is usually
some incomprehensible figure,
where the personnel is on one side,
the security service is on the other side,
the management of the company
is on the third side,
and the potential violator
is generally unknown.
There should always be
some ideal that you need to strive for.
This ideal is precisely
the barricade I am talking about.
The second point
that you will face
and usually face
when building a corporate security system
is
how to assess
the effectiveness
of corporate security.
What is it about?
It is about
professionally competent
work of the security service
and the fact
that it is not visible.
All the problems
that arise
are solved at the stage of birth.
Therefore,
nothing happens around the company.
But when nothing happens,
the question arises
why nothing happens.
Either because nothing happens
or because the security service
works competently.
Many managers
start asking
why they should not
work in the security service
if nothing happens.
Therefore,
security service often has problems
with assessing its activity
and its effectiveness.
Security service often
conducts such demonstrations.
It is necessary to catch someone
and show their importance.
But professional security service
does not work.
Nothing happens around.
What is the most difficult
thing when building
a corporate security system?
In my opinion,
it is the analyst.
It is necessary to create
an information-analytical unit
that will get the information
and analyze it.
It is difficult to find
analysts in the corporate security line.
There are not many of them.
They are not prepared anywhere.
It requires
a certain experience
and an analytical mind.
The result of the work
from the information-analytical unit
can be obtained only after a while.
Usually,
after at least a few months
after the creation
of the information-analytical unit,
you can expect some result.
Unlike security services,
where the result
can happen the next day
or an hour
after the security service was established.
You will face this problem.
There is a concept
of work on demonstration events
and work on the result.
What I want to say
is that
sometimes security is a fashion.
You often face it.
It is a fashion
and a fashion type of activity.
Security services
build their work
not from the point of view of efficiency,
but from the point of view of certain fashion directions.
When you see
bodyguards
driving in a car
and in front of them
a bodyguard
is driving in an open convertible
in Moscow,
stopping at every traffic light,
from the point of view of human protection,
it is pointless.
But it is a demonstration event.
A person likes
a car with a bodyguard.
Although
it cannot be effective
because
there is no real protection.
A lot of
security
is created
from a certain
how to say
from a certain image.
A competitor has
a bodyguard
and a company manager
creates security
from the point of view
that a competitor has it,
so it should be mine.
Look from this point of view
how you need to create a security unit
and how it will work
from the point of view of efficiency
or from the point of view
of efficiency.
I would like to emphasize
that all the questions
that you will solve
in the line of corporate security
should be divided into two big groups.
The one where it is clear what needs to be done
and the one where it is not clear what needs to be done.
I would say
is mainly technical issues.
You need to install
a video surveillance system.
In general, it is clear what needs to be done.
You need to look at
what cameras,
choose a company
that will install it,
serve it, and so on.
You need to allocate money for it.
There are problems where it is not clear what needs to be done.
As a rule, it is a relationship
with the controlling law enforcement agencies,
it is business intelligence,
it is personnel security.
And here,
at those moments
when it is not clear what needs to be done,
the law enforcement agencies pay more attention to it.
I think that is all
about our first topic
on building corporate security systems.
The next topic we will discuss today is the personnel safety of the company.
As I said, personnel safety of the company is generally very weak.
In general, everything that concerns the human factor is the weakest link in the corporate security system.
We are considering the issues that we will discuss today.
These are the threats that the company faces from the human factor.
These are the options for implementing these threats.
As I said in the first part, there are threats and options for implementing these threats.
Let's talk about personnel safety.
Let's talk about the procedure of hiring employees,
the procedure of firing employees in terms of personnel safety.
And let's talk about the use of polygraphs in the testing of employees.
The first question is the threats to the interests of the company applied to the human factor.
Basically, the threats to the interests of the company applied to the human factor are three basic threats.
These are all the threats to the actions of the law enforcement officers,
actions that fall under the criminal code or the administrative code.
These can be theft, fraud, or other actions.
The second basic threat is the disclosure of secrets by the law enforcement.
This can be the disclosure of commercial secrets, personal data, professional secrets in the form of medical, notarial, etc.
Everything that concerns the disclosure of information.
The third basic threat is the implementation of incompetent actions.
They can be legal, but they are simply incompetent and can damage the company's interests.
Let's consider the issue of information leakage,
the disclosure of information as a threat.
What are the possible ways to implement this threat?
There are several options.
First, through the employees of the company.
People work in the company, and they can disclose the information that has become known to them in the framework of their work.
This can be done through an employee.
A person is employed in the company to disclose information or to commit illegal actions.
The goal is not fundamental.
A person is employed to commit illegal actions.
This is not a unique thing.
The organization can be implemented by competitors or by organizations.
This is a channel of information disclosure.
The channel of information disclosure is through the fired employees.
People are fired from the organization.
This is a normal process.
We have a labor code that states that any employee can file a complaint about leaving on their own will,
and then be free to work for a maximum of two weeks.
It is difficult to say that an employee will not disclose any confidential information that has become known to him at work.
The legal practice states that such cases are almost unique and difficult to implement.
Therefore, a large threat is posed by the fired employees, because a large channel of information disclosure is through the fired employees.
If we continue to describe the three main channels of information disclosure,
we can say that there are several options for information disclosure through the employees.
The first is the so-called motivated disclosure.
The second is the unmotivated disclosure.
The third is the unmotivated disclosure.
The unmotivated disclosure is a disclosure where there are no motives for disclosing this information.
In a simplified version, this is the simplest and most elementary type of disclosure.
People simply do not represent the value of the information they possess, and are simply unmotivated and unmotivated.
Unfortunately, this is a serious problem.
In teams where a large number of people work, there are people who are simply unmotivated and unmotivated.
Explaining to them what is allowed and what is not allowed, usually does not lead to anything, because people usually disclose everything.
Even if you tell them that it is impossible to say, on the contrary, they will probably disclose it to a greater extent.
Therefore, everything that concerns unmotivated disclosure, these people are usually calculated,
they are usually limited by confidential information, and in the future, under some pretexts, they are fired.
It is very difficult to cure them, and usually useless.
There are certain criteria by which these people are calculated,
that is, in principle, it is easy to calculate them, it is simple to calculate them,
and there are certain psychological features of these people.
These may be people who abuse alcohol, because what is sober in the mind, is drunk in the tongue.
That is, a person in a state of alcohol intoxication simply discloses this information.
These are people who are creatively involved, it is very difficult to draw a line between them,
when a person can still control his actions, and when a person cannot control his actions.
That is, in the burst of creativity, a person can simply disclose and reveal commercial secrets.
These are impulsive people, these are people who are dissatisfied with something,
very often women's groups suffer from this, that is, unmotivated disclosure of information.
A person does not get anything for this, no dividends, no material benefits,
he just discloses information because of his easy-going and talkativeness.
A lot of information is disclosed in smoking rooms, from the point of view of unmotivated things.
Sometimes it is enough to ask a person how are you doing, and get a lot of interesting confidential information.
This is all that concerns unmotivated disclosure through employees of the company.
Motivated disclosure is a disclosure that is based on certain motives.
Moreover, motives can be used not only for disclosure of information, but also for some illegal actions.
If we talk about motives, the list of these motives is quite large.
It cannot be said that it is exhaustive, that is, everything that concerns motivated disclosure,
is usually a psychological feature of people, and all motivated disclosure is based on psychology.
Since psychology is different for each person, the list of motives is not exhaustive.
There are, I would say, the most common motives and the least common motives.
If we talk about the most common motivated disclosure, it is probably money.
This is greed, this is the use of money to get some information or make a person do some actions.
That is, a person discloses information or performs some actions, and in return receives a certain amount of money.
There is an active approach and a passive approach.
The passive approach assumes that a person finds people who know certain information,
of course, valuable information, some kind of private information, people who have more expenses than income,
that is, people in need of money.
They are offered to solve their material problems in exchange for, say, disclosure of some information or performing some actions.
This is the so-called passive approach.
The active approach is when a person in need of some confidential information,
but unfortunately he does not need money,
then an active event is held to make this person need money.
Then he is offered to solve his material problems in order to get some information from him or make him perform some actions.
How to make a person need money?
Again, this is a creative question, there are many different options.
If this is a greedy person, then you can take him to a casino.
If this is an enthusiastic person, then you can give him a woman, or some other things.
There are many ways to make him take a loan that he cannot pay.
This is a creative approach.
This approach is widely used, because money is a fairly universal product that many people need.
The second point that is widely used is the point of offense.
Why does a person perform some actions or disclose information?
Simply because he was offended.
He can be offended for various reasons.
It can be some legal offenses, it can be illegal offenses,
offense for illegal dismissal, offense for not taking a position,
offense for not realizing some creative potential, and so on.
In general, an offended person is always a bomb of slow action,
which, as a rule, explodes at the most inappropriate moment.
So, I want to say that you should try to make sure that you do not offend people.
Because an offended person is usually a problem.
Especially an offended person who knows the commercial secrets and has some certain powers.
There are quite a few cases in life when the offense of a person leads to a serious problem in the company.
The third point is quite common, I would say,
concerning the motivated disclosure of information or motivated performance of some actions.
This is blackmail.
What is blackmail?
Blackmail is clear.
This is a certain compromising action of this person,
which has a certain evidence base of these actions.
And a person is blackmailed by some things,
that is, by some actions that this person has committed or, perhaps, has committed around this person.
As a rule, the higher the position a person occupies,
the more he takes care of his impeccable reputation.
And, as a rule, he is more susceptible to blackmail.
Therefore, this motive for disclosure of information or for performing some actions related to blackmail,
it is usually used for the leading link.
Because blackmailing a loader with immoral acts is quite pointless,
because he can do these immoral acts every day and not regret it at all.
And the leader, let's say, the organization or some leading link,
can be very sensitive in terms of his impeccable reputation.
Blackmailing is generally based on…
Again, there are several approaches.
As a rule, the approach is active and passive.
Active and passive.
The passive approach is to find out the compromising information about the past life of a person.
And it is already a blackmail object.
That is, this is the information or the actions that a person has committed in the past.
In principle, as far as I understand, every person has some dark sides of his life.
As the English say, every person has his own skeleton in the closet.
The most important thing is to find some evidence of these dark moments
and think about how to use them for blackmail or discrediting.
Active blackmail is when there is no time to look for this compromising information
or when there is no time.
Then the organization conducts an event to make a person commit some compromising actions.
In the future, all this is removed, fixed and used for blackmail or discrediting.
Unfortunately, the compilation of compromising information is a shadow business,
which is unfortunately developing in Russia.
There are even whole organizations that specialize in the compilation of compromising information.
The compilation of all these information resources can go in different directions.
There are detectives who are engaged in the collection of information,
including information of dubious content.
Sometimes information agencies are engaged in this.
Unfortunately, this business is quite developed.
The following three reasons for disclosing information are the main reasons.
I say that the list of reasons is not exhaustive.
If we talk about other reasons, what can I pay attention to?
For example, the fear of a person for his life, for himself and his loved ones.
A person can have an impeccable reputation,
he can never take money, never get into a tricky situation,
never commit any compromising actions.
A person is weak by nature,
he has a surrounding in the form of a wife, husband, children, material values, business interests, etc.
For this reason, he can worry.
This can also be a way for one person to influence another person
in order to get some information or to commit some actions.
The motive can be the most common factor of pain.
A person can have an impeccable reputation,
but unfortunately, he will be punished.
He will tell everything he knows and everything he does not know.
Fortunately, this is not so often applied now.
But it should be assumed that a person can tell everything he knows.
Then we talk about methods of influence,
about means, methods, measures, purposefulness, etc.
Therefore, the framework of security is usually based on the fact
that a person can disclose and tell all the information resources he knows.
There is such a motive, let's say, sexual emotionality.
This is not blackmail, this is a so-called sexual partner's set-up
in order to get information or to force him to commit some illegal actions.
At the level of world practice, let's remember the matchmaker Mata Hari in the First World War.
She earned information with her body.
This is a channel of information getting.
There are some motives of information getting, let's call them national motives.
Fortunately or unfortunately, our country is multinational.
Businesses are often built on national characteristics.
If people of one nation are in one organization,
and a person of the same nation or ethnicity is in another organization,
then the channels of influence, that is, the motives, can be based on nationality.
We are of the same blood, from the same settlement, from the same region.
Tell me, share, etc.
There are quite a lot of cases in life.
Motives can be religious.
Although this is not often found in business.
Our country, fortunately or unfortunately, is multi-religious.
And the information can be obtained on the basis of various religious motives and aspects.
There is a motive related to depression.
A person has certain psychological features,
related to some depressive state.
Either he is entering a special state of depression,
or he can periodically fall into a state of depression,
a state of affect, a state of psychological uneasiness.
At this moment, a person receives information,
or forces him to disclose it, or to perform some actions.
There is a motive related to, let's say, the inner adventurism of a person.
Inner adventurism of a person.
This motive is independent, it is usually not used.
This motive is associated with some other motives.
It is clear that there may not be one motive,
there may be several motives for obtaining information.
Basically, this motive is associated with inner adventurism.
It is used for some young people who like to play Stirlitz,
scouts, in some kind of adventure games.
Such cases also occur.
There are motives associated with psychological things.
The basis is psychology.
That is, the motive of obtaining information.
I will stop here in detail.
Two options are common now.
This is the so-called NLP,
Neuro-Linguistic Programming,
and this is hypnosis.
Hypnosis is a more rigid option.
It is used not at every step, but nevertheless it is used.
NLP is now widely used.
In a nutshell, I will draw this thing.
The use of NLP elements in personnel work,
including personnel safety.
NLP, Neuro-Linguistic Programming,
was used for a long time,
probably several centuries ago.
For the first time, the English started to talk about NLP
in the Second World War.
The English scouts started to use NLP elements.
How to get information from a person?
The American scientists translated this into a scientific basis.
In the 1950s, it was generally considered that NLP was an American product.
Although the Americans just made a scientific justification
and put it all on a scientific basis.
The methods of NLP were developed long ago.
Several elements related to NLP are used.
In particular, if you want to get in touch with a person
in order to get information from him,
there is such a principle of mirroring in NLP.
You duplicate the movement, walk, breath of another person.
After a while, there is a certain comfort between you
and a certain position of one person from another.
And you can try to get information from a person.
What do I mean by duplication?
A person is sitting in the same position.
You can adjust your breathing to his breathing.
If we talk about safety,
thieves and pocket watchmen use this method very widely.
When a person is sitting in a train and he is sleeping,
a thief sits down and starts to swing.
After a while, there is a certain harmony between these two people.
And this thief can say,
let's give him a wallet and he will give it to him.
This is the relationship between each other
at the level of neural linguistic programming.
Let's say NLP is a method of transferring information.
It is a way to convince a person to do something or to disclose something.
Each person has a certain channel of receiving information.
All people are divided into so-called audiolysts, visualists and kinesthetics.
Audiolysts are people who perceive the world through the organs of vision.
They need to see everything.
They say, I see.
In order to achieve the location of these people,
that is, to make them disclose some information,
they need to be transmitted through their organs of vision.
They need to write everything,
they need to look good,
because this is primary information for them.
Audiolysts perceive everything by ear.
They say, I hear.
In order to achieve their location or make them do something,
make them disclose information,
they need to be transmitted through the organs of hearing.
If we talk about the third direction of kinesthetics,
they usually say, I feel.
These are people who need to touch, feel everything.
That is, to receive information from the outside world
through the contact, through kinesthetic sensations.
In order to achieve their location,
to make them do something or to transmit some information,
they need to touch, feel something.
Then they will transmit this information.
Therefore, one of the directions,
for example, how the NLP element is used,
is to understand who is in front of you,
an audiolyst, a visualist or a kinesthetic,
and try to convince him to do something
exactly on the channel that he has the most developed.
This is NLP.
NLP is widely used now
to train sales staff.
That is, how to convince a person to buy something.
NLP is widely used
to convince a person to do something,
in particular, to buy something.
NLP is widely used in personnel security,
in negotiations.
That is, in order to convince a person to do something,
to convince him to make a decision,
to tell about something,
NLP is used.
Hypnosis is a more serious thing,
a rather scary thing.
It is used less often than NLP,
but nevertheless it is a very serious threat
in terms of personnel security.
What is the threat?
As a rule, everything that concerns
illegal actions on hypnosis
is either disclosure of information,
or the execution of some actions,
or, again, the conviction of something.
Moreover, disclosure of information
in a state of hypnosis,
a person can disclose this information,
and in the future he will not even remember
that he first told something to someone,
and he will not remember,
and he will tell only the truth,
only what actually exists.
In a state of hypnosis, he will not deceive,
he will not deceive,
he will not mislead,
he will tell the truth.
This is a feature of hypnosis.
And he will not remember that he told something to someone.
You can make someone do some actions
in a state of hypnosis.
Gypsies use hypnosis a lot.
Unfortunately, these are such illegal actions
that can be done using elements of hypnosis.
In banking security,
you can face problems with hypnosis.
In particular, a few years ago,
there was a problem with exchange points.
A person who had a cashier
entered the cashier of the exchange point
in a state of hypnotic sleep,
gave, for example, 10 rubles,
convinced her that it was not 10 rubles,
but 1000 dollars,
and the cashier gave a change,
and the cashier,
the employee of the exchange point,
exchanged the change
based on a completely different bill.
There was such a problem.
A whole group of people
who were engaged in such things
was neutralized.
The problem of hypnosis,
unfortunately, is quite relevant.
How to protect yourself from hypnosis?
Immediately a question arises.
How is it solved?
It is quite difficult to introduce
a person into a hypnotic sleep.
There are times when you can understand
that something is wrong with a person.
At this moment, try to get away from this person,
try to stop some actions.
Hypnosis is transmitted through the gaze,
through hearing, through touch.
Therefore, at the initial stage,
you can still try to do something.
Hypnosis cannot be said
to be some kind of contraindicatory
initial action,
or rather, that it is initial evil.
It is like a way of affecting
one person on another.
This method can be used
either for good or evil.
Hypnosis is taught.
There is such a concept as medical hypnosis.
That is, the state of hypnosis
takes a person out of a state
of severe stress.
Hypnosis can be used
for contraindicatory purposes.
That is, the purpose, as I said,
is either to get information,
or to perform some actions,
or to gain a belief.
There are quite exotic methods
to come up with a purpose for hypnosis.
A person enters a state of hypnosis,
reads certain information,
and then leaves the state of hypnosis.
He moves to another country,
where he is introduced
to the state of hypnosis.
He tells all this,
although he will not remember it himself.
That is, it is like using a person
as a carrier of certain information.
Unfortunately, hypnosis and all
that concerns psychological methods
is one of the motives for obtaining information.
On the basis of not only the conscious,
but also the unconscious motive.
There may be other motives
for obtaining information,
but I have described them to you
as the most common and significant.
If we talk about the objects
that are most subject to the motives
for obtaining information,
based on the motives that exist,
these are those that have certain defects
in behavior, in psychological appearance,
passion for alcohol,
sexual entertainment, drugs, etc.
Or those who have a biographical stain.
All these motives are used
to obtain information.
But what is the purpose of hypnosis?
What is the purpose of hypnosis?
Objects suitable for the motives
for obtaining information
are those who have debts.
It is clear that people who have debts
are a group of risk.
These are people who can be used
by various techniques
in order to either get information
from them or force them to do some actions.
People who are strongly attached to something.
People who, for some reason,
are not able to get information
from them,
and who are very irritated for some reason.
So-called recruitment based on resentment.
I did not tell these points
from the point of view
that you received information
from someone,
and used these motivated things.
I probably told it from the point of view
that these motives
for obtaining information
or for performing some actions
can be used against you.
If you are an object,
let's say, an LPR,
a person who makes decisions,
then these motives
can be used against you
in order to either get information
from you or force you to do something.
Therefore, there are some recommendations
that, let's say,
recommendations on counteracting
the establishment of so-called
recruitment contact,
or motivated contact.
Well, it is not to get involved
in quarrels and scandals,
not to show excessive awareness
in anything,
except when it is required
during some business negotiations.
It is clear that
those people who usually
use these motivated approaches
are those people,
let's say,
who either know something
or can learn something.
If a person does not know
what to do,
then, in general,
there is no point in
performing some recruitment approaches
in order to get some information.
Therefore, it is not appropriate,
probably, as a recommendation,
to show that you know something,
have some commercial secrets,
some secrets, and so on.
There is a recommendation
related to the storage
of your commercial secrets,
your, let's say,
official secrets
from your close friends.
Well, this is due to the fact
that they will be able
to get information
not only from you,
but also from your environment,
that is, from your close friends.
First of all, you are just setting up
these people, because they will
already receive information from them.
Well, of course, there is no guarantee
that they will protect your secrets.
That is, they told their life
companions some commercial secrets,
and the next day
it became known all over the city.
Unfortunately, there were such
real-life cases.
Well, the analysis of your life,
probably,
is not the goal
of what I have achieved
in 30, 40,
50, 60 years.
The analysis of your life
from the point of view of determining
some motives in this life,
some moments related
to problems,
to situations
that can be used
for blackmail or discrediting.
Well, it is clear that
nothing can be changed
from the past life,
that is, you will not change anything
in your past life,
but at least you will be able
to illuminate these moments
from your point of view
to break the ground
from those people
Well, the recommendation
may be to find out
your weaknesses,
that is, to analyze your psychological
components,
your hobbies, alcohol, sex,
money, character traits, and so on.
I, of course, do not urge you
to change these character traits
if you think it is necessary,
but for God's sake.
Just keep in mind that these approaches,
motivated approaches to disclosure of information,
they usually use some psychological
components of a person.
Knowing them, you will simply know
that these motives may be suitable for you
in order to get information from you
or make you do some actions.
Well, probably
what else can be recommended?
Well, the analysis of contacts
is also a recommendation
to counteract the establishment
of such agent contacts,
because if you understand
why a person starts
trying to get close to you,
it's probably good.
That is, you need to give a clear report
why a person starts trying to get close to you.
If it is some kind of physiological
needs, it is understandable.
When it is not clear why a person
does it, then it is always
a so-called hazard.
Well, this is the point.
So, what else
I would like to draw
your attention to?
Well, now we are with you,
in general, I told you
the moments related
to the threats
that arise from the human factor,
and some of the moments
I covered the options
for the implementation of these threats.
The next aspect is
how to build personnel work,
how to build relationships
with the staff
from the point of view of personnel security,
in order to neutralize all the moments
related to the threat
of disclosure of information
or the threat of committing
some illegal actions.
So, personnel work.
So, here I will cover
some aspects
that are related to security,
almost directly related to security,
but I will not go into
the details of this topic,
which should be taken into account
when the event will be held.
So, this is the motivation of the staff.
Motivation of the staff.
The term is quite fashionable,
motivation of the staff.
There is even such a term as
motivated staff,
unmotivated staff.
I like the term motivated
because it is associated
with the term to swear.
Nevertheless,
such a term is used.
What is motivation?
Motivation is, in fact,
not a hook,
but some reasons
why a person works in an organization.
Naturally, the more reasons,
the more hooks,
the more moments
that make a person work
in an organization,
the less problematic
this person is.
With a motivated person,
it is much easier to solve
security issues.
There is even a whole seminar
about motivation.
I will just tell you
the problem of motivation
from the point of view
of personnel security.
All motivation is divided
into two large groups.
This is immaterial.
It is clear.
Material motivation is
motivation that is
related to certain material benefits.
Immaterial motivation is
motivation that is not
related to material benefits.
So, more strongly
immaterial motivation is considered.
It is clear that
material motivation is related
to money or material benefits.
In any case,
some organization can offer
more material benefits,
and a person will leave you.
Therefore, it is believed
that the strongest motivation
is immaterial.
The strongest, perhaps,
immaterial motivation is
ideology.
Ideology.
It is difficult to achieve
ideological motivation
in a commercial structure.
I have not encountered
companies where the staff
is motivated from the point of view
of ideology.
But if it succeeds,
it will be a very strong and solid company.
Ideology.
What can be the forms,
what can be the options?
It can be, for example,
religion.
It can be some kind of
patriotic or corporate idea.
It can be
the struggle of a small
oppressed people
for their self-awareness
and independence.
It can be ideology or an idea.
From the point of view of immaterial motivation,
let's say, in Moscow,
it is very common,
it is the closeness of work to home.
The closeness of work to home.
It is clear that
if a person lives in the north of Moscow,
goes to the south of Moscow every day,
spends several hours on the road,
if a person finds
a company that will pay,
all other
motivation systems will be the same,
and a person finds
work near the house,
he will leave the organization to work
near the house.
So, the immaterial motivation
in the form of the closeness of work to home
is typical only for Moscow.
For regional companies,
it may not be very typical.
What can be noted
from the immaterial?
Let's say, self-employment.
Self-employment.
Very strong immaterial motivation
is due to the fact that
a person works because he likes it.
He likes to paint.
He will paint every day.
If you assign him to a position
related to leadership,
he will not work because he does not like it.
Here,
from the immaterial motivation,
is the moral-psychological climate.
Moral-psychological climate.
Why does a person work?
Because it is a very comfortable
moral-psychological climate.
A person may not get a salary for half a year
and will go to work.
Why does he go to work?
The team is good, the company is good.
And a person can get
very decent money,
but he leaves work because
everyone is like scorpions in a jar,
everyone is trying to sting each other.
Material motivation
is money.
A person must receive
a certain monetary reward
for his work.
This monetary reward
should not be lower
than the average
in the region,
in the industry,
in the position, etc.
Then it will be material motivation
based on money.
It can be from material motivation
some kind of social package.
Now it is a very fashionable direction.
In personnel policy,
it is a social package.
In addition to money,
a person receives certain benefits
related to social protection,
social security.
It can be a compensation
for travel,
free lunch,
some kind of trips,
a social package.
It can be a brand.
I would put the word
brand here.
A brand company.
A person works
in a very respectable
brand company.
He is proud of it.
He has a certain corporate culture, etc.
Material motivation
usually includes
working conditions.
Working conditions.
A person works
in good conditions,
with air conditioners,
with repairs, with Euro-repair,
modern equipment, etc.
The other thing is that
working conditions can be much worse.
It is not motivated.
The material motivation
is financial commitment.
Financial commitment.
It is about the fact
that a person binds
a worker to himself
by financial commitments.
He can send him to school,
pay for his education,
buy him an apartment,
etc.
A person is bound
to a company by financial commitments.
The most important thing here
is not to overdo it
and not to abuse it.
If a person is too much
bound to a company by financial commitments,
it is difficult to get rid of it.
This is a very common
material motivation of a person.
There may be
some other options.
For example,
this is not material,
but a given authority.
A given authority.
It can be
some personal goals
of a person.
It can be material
or not.
For example,
a person gets a work experience.
He is interested in getting
a certain work experience.
This is a motivation
of a person working in a company.
You can write it down further.
This is not an exhaustive list.
These are just the main directions
of a person's work experience.
I want to add
one more thing.
I want to stop at this point.
The more motivated
a person is,
the less problems
he will have.
I have encountered
situations
when a company
is creating a promising direction
or a promising project.
There are two candidates
for this position.
One is Ivan Ivanov,
the other is Petrov Petrovich.
The situation is analyzed
by these people
and by the security service.
The security service
says that Ivan Ivanov
is well motivated
and has a lot of reasons
why he works
in this company.
There are no problems
with this information.
Petrov Petrovich
is a professional,
but he has no reasons
why he works here.
Either we should appoint Ivan Ivanov
or Petrov.
We should organize
an event
to motivate this person.
We should bind him to this company.
Then we can trust him
with a promising project
if we want him to be a leader
and a competitor.
The motivation of the staff
is directly connected
with the security service.
The next thing
I would like to point out
is the security service line.
It is
professionalism.
Professionalism is not only
among the security service employees.
Everyone should be a professional
in his or her field.
Then it is much more effective
to build a security system
than when
non-professionals work.
Professionalism is achieved
by a competent selection of staff.
You can train your staff
to become professionals.
You can use a staff agency.
You can recruit people.
You can do hand-hunting.
You can lure staff.
The point is
to form a team.
It is a fashionable method
of teamwork.
The next thing I would like to point out
is the moral and psychological climate.
The moral and psychological climate.
It is important to understand
that the security of the staff
and the security of the organization
depends on the moral and psychological climate.
To put it simply,
if the CEO
rides the latest Mercedes model
and the employees
do not receive their salary for six months,
then there is no need
to talk about serious security.
You will never build a security system there.
The moral and psychological climate
is achieved by several things.
It is a whole set of events.
It is like a training process.
The formation of
the so-called corporate culture
is achieved.
The corporate culture.
I can say that
the corporate culture
is based on the behavior
of a person.
It is not based on
any external forms.
We all wear red jackets.
This is our corporate culture.
If a person wears a blue jacket,
it is a violation of corporate culture.
It is not about
the appearance.
It is about the behavior.
It is a code of behavior.
The moral and psychological climate
can be formed
by the work of psychologists.
Psychologists
are often used
for the security
of the staff
and the corporate security.
Because many problems
can be solved
by the professional work
of a psychologist
when the psychologist
is a professional.
It is about
the moral and psychological climate.
It is about the selection of staff.
There are organizations
where psychologists work
professionally
for the security of the staff.
But I can say that
the organizations
do not use the resources of psychologists.
For example,
a team is excited
because it is not efficient.
A psychologist,
after testing the team
and making a psychological portrait
of each person,
will tell the psychologist
to remove a person from the team.
The team becomes calm
and efficient.
This is the work of a psychologist.
Psychologists are widely used
when setting up staff.
It is right to understand
that there is a psychological feature
of a person that cannot be changed.
But it can be used.
There are four types of personalities.
There is a blood type,
a melancholic,
a phlegmatic, a choleric.
It is what is given by nature
and what does not change.
Knowing who is in front of you
of these four types of personalities,
you can understand
how to use it.
There is a concept
of a strong nervous system,
a person can work
for 8 hours
in a monotonous and scrupulous way.
Then he should rest for 8 hours.
A weak nervous system
is a person who works
for half an hour,
then he should rest for half an hour.
It does not mean that it is a bad
or good nervous system.
It is a certain psychological feature.
Knowing it, you will set up people
and there will be fewer problems.
Psychologists can assess
whether a person can work with people
or not.
If a person is well-led
by 5 people,
you will put him
on a team of 100 people.
The psychology of a person
will not allow him
to lead 100 people.
If he leads 5 people well,
he will not be able to lead 100 people.
Not because he is bad,
but because it is a psychological feature.
There is a concept of an introvert.
A person is either closed
or communicative.
If you put a person
to work in a closed sales department,
he will not be able to work
because he is a thing in himself.
That is why psychologists work very well
in the field of personnel safety.
There are
other points
about personnel safety.
There is a certain percentage ratio.
If we talk about
theft,
then the issue of
theft is a problem.
10% of people
always steal.
No matter
what motivation
they have,
what salary they have.
This is a habit.
10%
never
steal.
They
steal
because
they believe
that
no matter
how difficult
the situation is,
they will never steal.
80%
steal when
there are conditions
and when there is no control.
They steal
when there are conditions.
When there are conditions.
Roughly speaking,
a person will take
some money
when he understands
that he will be punished.
You can argue about the percentage.
It is written in smart books.
This is about our country.
In Muslim countries,
where there is a fence
where fingers and hands are cut off,
the percentage may be completely different.
In our country, the ratio is approximately the same.
So,
based on this,
what is the task
of the security service?
It is clear that
those people who always steal
should be eliminated.
Those people who never steal
should be left
if they represent something.
The biggest problem is
these 80%.
The main task here
is not to create conditions for stealing.
If you are engaged
in some provocative activities,
you will put money somewhere
and see who will take it and who will not.
You will find out that
90% of people
will take the money
if they know that no one sees them.
You can fire all of them
and get new 90%.
The ratio will be exactly the same.
I am very skeptical
about various
provocative activities
of the security service
because
the percentage is exactly the same.
We should not create conditions.
I would like to draw your attention
to one more thing.
There is a term
for critical or problematic people.
To address
the attention
of either critical people
or critical employees.
What is it?
As I said,
if we talk about
disclosure of information,
the whole team is scanned
in terms of identifying
those people who can
do the right thing
or disclose the information.
Those people
are paid more attention.
What do I mean?
Let's say,
IT specialist
or IT security
is engaged in protection
of information resources.
This is a critical person
because he needs special attention.
The secretary of the company
may not know anything
but she is responsible
for a lot of confidential documents.
It can be
the same cleaners
who can
do some illegal actions
in terms of
disclosure of information,
installation of listening devices, etc.
If we talk about
critical employees
who can do some illegal actions,
the whole team is scanned
and it looks like
the person
needs money
for different reasons.
The patient needs an expensive surgery
and the patient has no money
for the surgery.
But he will have to solve this problem.
We can assume that he will do
some illegal actions
because he will try
to find money illegally.
Many things
can be predicted.
You know,
a person came from
a state-owned organization
of a factory
where the principle was
that the owner is not a guest
and he has to carry every nail.
The person has a habit
of stealing.
We can assume that he has this habit
and he has not gotten rid of it.
Let's recall a famous story
about a golden calf
when Shura Balaganov
gave a huge amount of money
to the bandit
who would have enough money
for his days.
And he got into a tram
with 3 rubles.
Why did he get into the tram?
Because of his habit.
Many things can be predicted.
If you see
or hear about
security services
that there is a security guard
and they have some intimate relations
and they are connected by work,
so the security guard is watching the cashier,
then you can assume
that their actions will be illegal.
They should be divorced,
at least by the service,
so that they are not connected.
Many illegal actions
can be predicted.
A woman works,
she marries a man
who works in a competing company.
Can we predict any consequences?
I think we can.
We can try to predict
and prevent
any consequences
related to these critical people.
I will give you
only a few examples.
You can describe it in detail later.
Life is too multifaceted,
so many things can be predicted.
It is possible.
I will remind you
about the old principle
of the personnel policy.
It is the principle of a wick and a gingerbread.
A wick and a gingerbread.
It is very effective
from the perspective of personnel security.
The principle of a wick and a gingerbread
should be applied
to people.
There should be a gingerbread
in the form of motivation.
There should be a wick
that is in the form of
responsibility.
Responsibility related to
the responsibility of the staff,
administrative responsibility,
criminal responsibility.
I will also draw your attention
to the personnel policy
on the line of personnel security.
This is the relationship
between the security service
and the personnel.
And the personnel.
Such relations will have to be established
in any case.
It should be based on
the example I gave
about the barricades.
There should be a barricade
where the security service and the personnel
are not allowed to go.
And there should be
some illegal actions
or potential violations.
How to build it?
There are different points.
In principle, the security service
should help the personnel.
The personnel should look
at the security service
not as a monster,
a mini KGB,
who walks, looks,
peeps, listens.
The security service should help
the personnel.
But according to the law,
it may not do it.
According to the law,
the security service
should provide security
only to the founder.
It is not obligatory
to solve the personal problems
of the employees of the enterprise.
But I think it should be done
to build these relations.
And this help may not
be a big deal.
For example,
a person sells a car
and receives cash.
And the person asks
to give a couple of people
to stand next to him.
There is nothing wrong
or expensive for the security service.
But this person will treat
the security service
as an organization
that can help and support.
And, of course,
the security service
should provide
a certain number of people.
They are called
voluntary assistants.
This problem exists.
Such people are not always
called sex workers,
secret employees,
drummers,
knockers, and so on.
But here we should start
from the fact that there are
a lot of people
who are not
able to work.
We should treat
the information
of the security service
positively or at least
calmly.
If you drive a car
in Germany,
10 old ladies will call the police
and report that the car
has exceeded the speed limit.
They do not perceive
this quality.
Everyone understands that a car
that has exceeded the speed limit
is a threat
to the residents,
to the elderly,
to the children,
to the grandchildren, and so on.
The goal is to ensure
the security of the organization.
The more solid and secure
the organization is,
the better the staff.
But this problem exists.
I will also mention
a rather fashionable
area.
It is the use of polygraph
in the company testing.
The use of polygraph.
What is a polygraph?
It is a lie detector.
I think everyone has heard about it.
It is a legal business.
It is a legal product.
You can find
a lot of companies
that provide services
of polygraph.
They sell polygraph.
There is nothing illegal here.
You can't say
that it is a tool
of some special services.
What should be taken into account
if the security service
will use polygraph
in the personnel security?
The first thing
is the legal aspect.
The testing of polygraph
should be voluntary.
You can't test a person
with polygraph
just because
the director wants it.
If a person doesn't want
to be tested,
you can't force him.
So, usually,
if a polygraph is being tested,
the application is collected
and the test is conducted.
Usually, it is a statement
of the testers' consent
to test polygraph.
There are some features
of the contactless polygraph
that can be legended.
You can't legend the contactless one.
This is the first point.
Voluntary.
The second point
of the polygraph testing
is that the result
is not a proof.
You can't fire a person
just because he showed polygraph.
You can't impose a conviction
on a person just because he showed polygraph.
It is like Stirlitz's
information to think.
It is where you need to dig deeper.
It is a kind of information to think.
When is polygraph used?
Usually,
it is a
method of work.
A method of work.
There are organizations
that
constantly
use polygraph
when they come to work.
If there is a need,
it can be done.
When they come to work,
they usually find out
the standard options.
Does a person
use drugs?
Is he connected
to criminal elements?
Is he connected to criminals?
To competitors?
Polygraph is used
in the current activity.
What is the current activity?
The leader
wants to know
if the bribes are taken or not.
Do the employees
sit on the rolls?
There is a kind of current activity.
It is a common
case.
Nevertheless, there are companies
where the current activity
is provided
through polygraph.
The most common
option is
a service investigation.
A service
investigation.
When something
happened,
some money was stolen,
then a service investigation
is conducted
using polygraph.
It is the most common
option.
The types of polygraph
that you need to know
if you
use polygraph services.
Polygraph.
What is available
on the market,
what you can buy.
There are two options.
Contact
and contactless.
Contactless.
It is a classic
polygraph.
There are 8-12 sensors
that track a person
and measure his parameters.
Breathing,
abdominal, chest,
pulse, sweat,
voice, pupil,
tremor sensor,
motor activity,
muscle activity, etc.
These sensors are
connected to a block
where all the information is stored.
Then a computer is connected,
graphics are built, etc.
The principle of operation is simple.
It was developed in the 1920s.
First, a person is set up.
A polygraph is set up
for a specific person.
First, a person is asked
questions,
the answers to which are not known.
For example,
it is winter now,
and it is clear that a person answers yes.
It is necessary to answer
either yes or no.
There is no need to think,
fantasize, or invent.
The parameters of a person are measured
when it is clear that he is telling the truth.
After that,
mathematical calculations
give certain conclusions
about whether a person is telling the truth
or not.
This is a classical contact polygraph.
A contact polygraph
is usually implemented
as a mind reader.
It is a little bit
complicated.
It is a simple
computer program.
It is a computer program
that can be used
to read a book.
There is a slightly different principle.
The principle is a reaction of a person
to some questions.
It is a question
whether the answer is meaningful
or not.
Usually, it is implemented
in the following way.
You test a person on drugs.
You are interested in the topic of drugs
that are applicable to this person.
Words are typed
that are related to drugs.
The screen of the monitor
shows this word for 15 milliseconds.
Then it is closed
by some chaotic set of numbers.
A person needs to press
a magic button
like a joystick.
He needs to press it.
The reaction of a person is measured.
The reaction will be different
depending on whether
this word is meaningful or not.
It can be either fast
or slow.
It will change.
Then the meaning
of this topic
is determined.
If a person
is indifferent to this topic
and has a smooth reaction,
his reaction will be the same
as when answering all other questions
or neutral questions.
A person can have
no words.
He will be covered by numbers.
A person's consciousness
will not react
to this word
with such a small value.
A word for 0.15 seconds
will not be reacted by consciousness.
You will not see what is written there.
You will see only the numbers
that will close this word.
But at the subconscious level
a person will react.
The reaction will be different.
This is the basis of the action
of this polygraph.
It is widely popular.
It has many advantages
in relation to the contact.
It starts from time.
Testing one person
on a contactless polygraph
is much faster.
It can be legendarized.
A person will press a button
and he will not even know
that he is being tested on a polygraph.
He will just say
that he is being measured
by a person's reaction.
It is much less painful.
When a person is confused
by wires and sensors,
it is a serious psychological trauma
or psychological pressure.
A regular button
is much less painful
for a person.
Here are two options
either contact or contactless
that are available on the market
and can be bought.
There is another option
but it is more theoretical.
It is developed by Americans.
The idea is that
when a person tells the truth,
he is involved in one number
of brain cells.
If he tries to deceive,
he is involved in a much larger number
of brain cells.
The number of brain cells
involved is measured.
If there are many of them,
there is a possibility
that a person is deceiving.
This polygraph
is still in the theoretical development stage.
Contact or contactless
is what you can buy
on the market.
If we talk about
the use of a polygraph,
what should we pay attention to?
If you will
periodically use a polygraph
during a service investigation,
you can invite a specialist.
If you will use it every day,
you need to take
a person,
buy this device,
teach this person,
take him to the US,
and so on.
In the vast majority of cases,
people usually use other services.
Here is another thing
I want to draw your attention to
regarding the polygraph.
Keep in mind that a lot depends on the polygraphist.
A polygraph is
a tool
that is like a gun.
A good gun
will hit the target
in good hands,
and in bad hands
it will not hit the target.
Although the gun itself will be good.
Therefore, a polygraph is good.
But it is always deceiving not the polygraph,
but the polygraphist.
If you will choose
a polygraphist or polygraphologist,
pay special attention to the polygraphist.
A lot depends on him.
There are
some ways to deceive the polygraph.
There is a pharmacological way,
that is,
the use of some
inhibiting or stimulating drugs.
There is a physiological
way,
a mechanical way,
that is, the use of some painful sensations
to bite your tongue,
to knock down
the polygraph.
There is a psychological way,
that is, to think about something
that is significant or insignificant for you.
Nevertheless,
a good polygraphist will understand
that he is being deceived.
A contactless polygraph,
what is good about it,
it is difficult to deceive it,
because a person does not even know
that he is being tested and will not understand
what he is being tested for.
Unlike a contactless polygraph,
when it is clear that it is a polygraph,
that all these questions are being tested.
Therefore, this is the point.
Whether you will apply it or not,
you will see for yourself,
but at least it is one of the directions
of the formation of the personnel security.
Here,
what else
I will draw your attention to.
Try not to plant bombs
of slow action
from the point of view
of personnel security.
This is according to the line
Do not plant bombs
of slow action.
I have already given examples.
For example,
if you fire a person
who knows your commercial secrets,
in a bad way,
it is a bomb of slow action.
There are many such options.
Here I can recommend
the application of a test period
for employees,
because, as a rule,
this is also related to the issue of security.
Apply a certain policy
to select personnel
applicable to
certain categories of people.
First of all,
it is critical people.
This is related to IT specialists,
because, as a rule,
they can pose a serious threat.
A competent selection of the head
of the security service,
where the first place,
in my opinion,
is not even a question of professionalism,
but a question of loyalty.
To people
who are appointed
to conduct some promising projects.
These are some critical people.
Now let's talk about
the acceptance
and dismissal
of employees.
If we write down
the acceptance questions,
what does the security service decide?
What do the personnel decide?
The personnel decide
the selection of employees,
the selection of personnel
with personnel,
and the issue of
the documentation.
What does the security service decide?
The security service
mainly decides
the inspection of employees.
The inspection of candidates
for positions in your organization.
The difficulty here is
that it is very difficult
to collect information
in a legal way.
There is a concept
of personal data,
there are personal data laws,
and it is very difficult
to collect legal information.
Unlike legal information collection
for legal persons.
Everything can be done legally,
but for personal data
it is difficult.
The inspection of the security service
of candidates
is based on different things.
It is mainly assessed
by the threat to the organization
or not.
In order to make a decision
whether a person poses a threat
to the organization or not,
the circle of information
about what is collected is determined.
What information is collected?
What information
is collected about the candidate?
It is clear that
all the information
about a person
can be collected,
but it will be expensive and meaningless.
You can collect information
about the coffee service
in the kitchen
and what is the name of your favorite dog.
From the point of view of security
for the organization,
the circle of questions
and answers is determined.
This is all about
objective data.
Objective data
can be obtained
by means of documents
that a person presents.
For example, a passport,
driver's license,
education documents, etc.
Objective data
can be collected
by means of a questionnaire
that a person fills out.
This is a normal practice
when a person
fills out a questionnaire.
Try to make the questionnaire
well-composed.
This is the information
that a person provides about himself
and which you want to receive
directly from a person.
Usually, it consists of several sheets
and many questions are discussed there,
including financial obligations
that a person has.
It is clear that if a person
pays a loan
for some mortgage
more than you will pay per month,
then the question arises
where he gets the money.
In this questionnaire,
when you form it,
make sure that
the person gave you this information
voluntarily and does not object
to checking the information.
The person must sign it.
Keep in mind that there is an article
on dismissal of a person
under the Labor Code
for false information.
What information is collected?
Information on violations
and crimes.
You are interested in
whether a person was ever
involved in administrative
violations or crimes.
It is clear whether a person
was ever involved in criminal crimes.
Whether he was on the wanted list,
whether he was a criminal,
and so on.
Again,
it is not necessarily
bad, it is definitely good.
However,
if you take a driver
and see that he was involved
10 times in violation of the speed limit,
2 times in the abuse
of alcohol,
then it is clear
that it is better not to take such a driver.
I am saying that a smart person
will not be caught.
He is punished for what?
Not for what he did,
but for what he got caught.
Therefore, it is better not to take people
for criminal responsibility
or for administrative violations.
Although all this is very individual
and subjective.
First, we look at the direction
in which we collect information.
Financial obligations.
I have already said
financial obligations.
Now, unfortunately,
very common,
unfortunately,
fortunately,
are loans,
consumer loans,
mortgages, and so on.
This is not good
from the point of view of security.
If a person has accumulated a huge amount
of financial obligations,
it is clear that he must pay.
He can commit illegal actions
precisely because he has nothing to return.
Let's say,
a connection with competitors.
It is clear that you are interested
whether this Cossack is not sent
and whether he is not satisfied
with your organization,
with some illegal goals
that his competitors
have set up.
They look at the connection
with the organization of crime.
With the organization of crime.
Again, from the point of view
of the threat that this person poses
if he has some kind of
extensive connection with the organization of crime.
It can be both a threat and not a threat.
Again, this information is simply collected.
Then it must be analyzed
and some decisions are made.
It is analyzed from the point of view
of some amoral actions.
Amoral actions.
The concept of amoral actions
is quite subjective.
But, as a rule,
there is a classical approach,
a classical interpretation of these things.
It is related to drunkenness,
to some unmarried relationships
and everything else.
The connection is analyzed
with some organizations.
It can be the most diverse organization.
Good or bad organizations.
Of course, from the point of view
of threats.
If you take a person
and you get information
that he is connected
with some nationalist movements,
with the Kinheads,
with something else.
Why do you need extra problems?
Here, from the point of view
of some religious views,
it is evaluated
from the classical point of view
of religion, it is good.
As a rule, people do not
commit any illegal actions.
Although there are some religious
movements that can harm
your company.
It is analyzed
from the point of view
of a person's psychological features.
Psychological features.
I have already talked about them
when I talked about the relationship
between work and psychologists.
Relative relationships are analyzed.
Under the relative relationship
you can include many things.
This is the relationship
between fathers and children.
in the family, where parents work,
where the wife works, where the children work.
In general, the relationship in the family
is based on the fact
that a person is in the stage of divorce.
He is very worried.
It is clear that in the near future
he will not be a worker
because this fact of divorce
can have a very strong effect on him.
What is analyzed?
The work in the past.
From the point of view of committing
any illegal actions,
the reason for the dismissal is analyzed.
In the vast majority of cases
in the employment book
they write quite classic things
related to the departure
at will or by agreement of the parties.
90% of dismissals
are based on these articles.
The security service
must understand the real reason
for the dismissal.
A person can commit
some illegal actions.
The company does not want to quarrel with him.
To clarify the relationship,
the company must write a statement
and leave.
In fact, the person left
because he was kicked out.
The material situation is analyzed.
The material situation is analyzed
from the point of view of the ratio
of the material situation
and the positions of the person.
If it is clear,
the material situation
corresponds to the positions
of the person
in various organizations.
When a person worked
in low-level organizations,
in low-level positions,
and has a very serious
material situation,
the question arises why.
There is a concept
of a rastro sign of danger.
It is necessary to understand
why this happens.
There is a rastro sign of danger.
There is some kind of
mismatch and illogicity
of the situation.
It is possible to analyze
the number of connections
with the administrative resource,
connections with some organizations,
the ability of this person,
and so on.
The level of information
collected by a person
depends on
the position of this person.
It is clear that if you take
a person to a position of a loader,
you may be interested
only in a very small amount
of information about this person.
If you take a person to a position of a top manager,
there is a more serious level
of information collection
and verification.
If we talk about
channels of information collection,
what methods of collection are there?
I have already said that
methods are limited
to such concepts as personal data.
Basically,
it is what a person
reports himself
on the resume,
on the interviews,
on the objective materials
that he brings,
such as documents,
passport,
employment certificate,
and so on.
Getting information
on the Internet,
that is, having typed the last name
of a person in various
search engines of the Internet,
you can understand or get
some information about this person.
In particular,
educational schools
often make graduates of a certain year
with photos,
surnames,
and the person's
face and school
where he graduated.
This is a real experience.
It is impossible to hide
the year and the school he graduated from.
Just typing his last name and his school
is enough to hide the year.
Using various databases.
Unfortunately,
there are a lot of such databases.
Unfortunately or fortunately,
illegal, semi-underground databases
can be supplied on the Internet
and sold on the markets.
Unfortunately, this is an objective reality.
Our personal data
is not well protected.
Security services often use
these databases.
It is necessary to assume that
this is not legal information,
it can be cut off,
it can be incomplete.
At least, if a person
comes to you to work,
he is identified by the database
of a lost passport,
at least he should be guarded.
If he does not go through
any database,
it does not mean that he is white and fluffy.
It means that you need to dig deeper.
It can be
a trip to the workplace,
a conversation with people
with whom he used to work
or with whom he used to contact.
There are other options.
You can make inquiries
to the educational institutions
where he graduated from.
It is necessary to assume that
no one is obliged to answer these inquiries.
This is about the reception.
If, from the point of view of the security service,
a person is not a threat,
then usually it is a questionnaire
that is filled by the person.
The head of the security service
signs that he does not object.
If he objects,
then this candidate does not need
to explain anything.
Nothing is officially written.
The leadership of the company
says that, in their opinion,
these are the reasons
why they do not recommend
hiring this person.
However, I say again
that this is not an official reason for refusal.
Therefore, official papers are not written.
This is all about
the reception at work.
As for the dismissal,
I will write a little here.
The dismissal of employees.
The security service also
widely applies
the reasons
for dismissal.
Of course, it is necessary
to look at the level
of the person who is dismissed.
Basically,
what is applied
and what is recommended.
It is necessary to find out
the real reasons for dismissal.
This is a very important point.
The reason for dismissal
is not a person's
personality.
The real reasons for dismissal
are the following.
One thing is that he found a job
closer to home and paid more.
This is one thing.
If he leaves because
he is being eaten up by the team,
the moral and psychological climate,
or maybe he leaves because
he did something and is trying
to replace the traces,
this is completely different.
The real reasons for dismissal are
trying to find out
the future job.
The amount of information
of this person is known.
I have already said
that it is necessary
to start from the worst.
The worst thing
is that the person
can tell everything
he knows.
For money or not,
this is another question.
Unfortunately, it is objective reality
that he can tell everything.
Therefore, as a rule,
everything that a person knows
comes from the worst.
The risks associated
with the disclosure of this information
are minimized.
The activity in the unit
from which a person leaves
is analyzed.
Was there any problem
associated with some kind of disappearance,
loss, theft, and so on?
Again, this is a reason
why a person is dismissed.
He wants to replace some traces.
The instruction to a person
who is dismissed
is related to
trying to convince
a person
to not disclose
the information
he knew
in the past.
This is a very difficult
and necessary
instruction.
He should not
do
any illegal
actions
after dismissal.
Here is an interesting experience
of Americans.
They pay money
to a person
to keep commercial secrets.
A person is dismissed.
He is obliged
not to disclose
the commercial secrets
and to pay a certain amount of money
to keep it.
If there are any problems
associated with disclosure,
he loses some money
as a bonus.
This experience is not widely used
in Russian companies.
However, it is not prohibited.
It can be done without any problems.
To inform
the employees
who work with a person
that he is dismissed
and he is dismissed
and that he does not work
with us anymore.
If you want to contact him,
you can.
No one forbids you
to drink vodka with him.
However, it is not allowed
to disclose confidential information.
A company's agents
are informed
that this person
does not work
with this company anymore.
A person can be
informed that
this person
does not work with this company anymore.
They can disclose some information
and do some actions
because they remember
that this person
worked with them.
It is necessary to check
that a person did not take
any databases,
any electronic devices,
any access codes,
any passwords,
any cryptos, etc.
Usually,
the environment
in which this person
was in contact
is analyzed.
It means that the employees
of the company
who worked with him
were in close relations.
It can be a friendship,
a love relationship,
or a relationship
with a company.
The approach to these people
is a certain work.
It is mainly
preventive measures.
If a person wants
to get information,
he will contact
the people
he used to be in close relations with.
Then there is an instruction
not to disclose
any information.
I would like to add
that the responsibility
of the employees
of the company
for various illegal actions
is related to this.
The list of illegal actions
can be very long.
The responsibility
can be different.
I will focus on one problem
that is related to the person,
to the work of the security service
and to the personnel
of the company.
It is the disclosure
of information
that is a commercial secret.
What can be done
with a person
who disclosed
commercial secrets?
The responsibility can be different.
I will try to write it down.
Here is a situation.
One of the situations
is the disclosure
of information
that is a commercial secret.
I will call it KT.
It is a classic abbreviation.
It is a commercial secret.
What responsibility
does a person
who disclosed a commercial secret have?
The responsibility can be different.
The simplest thing
that can be done
and is quite realistic
is disciplinary responsibility.
Disciplinary responsibility.
Here we need
to start from different points.
There is a concept
of a commercial secret regime.
A commercial secret regime
is created at the enterprise.
It assumes certain actions of the employee.
In case of violation of the employee's norms
and requirements,
he can be brought to disciplinary responsibility.
According to the Labor Code,
it is a complaint,
a reprimand.
Here we are not talking
about the disclosure of a commercial secret.
The information has not gone anywhere,
no damage has been done,
but for the violation of the commercial secret regime.
It is used very simply,
very easily and quite calmly.
The most important thing is
that the commercial secret regime was created
and that the employees
knew what it consisted of
and knew their responsibilities
within the framework of the commercial secret regime.
It can be
disciplinary prosecution,
it can be a deprivation of bonus,
it can be a reprimand,
it can be a complaint,
and so on.
It can be a dismissal.
A dismissal
can also be a disciplinary prosecution.
Nevertheless,
in the Labor Code,
both in the old,
the new and the completely new,
it is prescribed.
For the disclosure of a secret
by the law,
various types of secrets are listed,
including the commercial secret.
The employee can be fired.
This is a dismissal
on the initiative of the employer.
I have never encountered
a person being fired on this article.
For various reasons.
First, you need to have very strong
evidence of the person's guilt
to fire him on this article.
Because a person can
appeal to court after a while.
In our case, the court usually
stands on the side of the employee,
not on the side of the employer.
And the employer will need
to have very strong evidence
why the person was fired on this article.
I have no idea
where a person can go
if he was fired
on the basis of a commercial secret.
If it is a record
of a labor book,
then it is a wolf's ticket
that the person will not go anywhere.
Therefore, I would not recommend
to abuse this.
And usually, if it is a disclosure of information,
people still go to other articles.
The classic option is
either consent of the parties
or a disclosure of information
on their own will.
Nevertheless, if a person has already
disclosed all the secrets,
then he can be fired.
This is the kind of article
that exists.
What else is the responsibility?
There is a property responsibility.
According to our legislation,
that is, according to the law
on commercial secrecy
and according to the Civil Code,
there is a full property responsibility
for the damage
caused by the disclosure of a commercial secret.
However, it is necessary to assume
that it is quite difficult
to prove and to investigate
because everything that concerns
the damage caused by the disclosure
of a commercial secret is usually a lost benefit.
There is a real damage,
there is a lost benefit.
The real damage
is usually very minimal.
It can be the cost of a piece of paper
that was taken out of the enterprise
and a formula was written on it.
The real damage can be a penny.
Everything else is, in fact,
a lost benefit.
The contracts, contracts,
agreements are broken, and everything else.
It is almost impossible
to compensate for a lost benefit
according to our judicial system.
Therefore, it is necessary to assume
that if the information has leaked,
then, as a rule,
all that concerns the property responsibility
is very difficult to implement.
Therefore, everything that concerns
the protection of information,
including that of a person,
must be done in advance.
As soon as this happens,
it is already quite difficult
to do anything.
Although, according to the law,
property responsibility is provided.
There is criminal liability.
Criminal liability.
Criminal liability is provided
for disclosure of commercial secrets.
Keep in mind
that this is a criminal act.
This is a crime.
Disclosure of commercial secrets
to the company's employees
is a crime,
not even a violation of the law.
This is not administrative liability,
but criminal liability.
Although there are a lot of subtleties
and nuances here.
This is an article
Article 183 of the Criminal Code.
It has a certain feature.
It is basically applied,
but in some situations
it is very difficult.
I will try to explain these things now.
Article 183 of the Criminal Code
of the Russian Federation
In order to understand
why Article 183 of the Criminal Code
consists of such a large number of articles,
I will explain it to you.
Article 183 of the Criminal Code
Although Article 183 of the Criminal Code
consists of four parts,
it is necessary to understand
how the disclosure of commercial secrets
to the enterprise takes place.
Basically, the disclosure goes
I will try to draw here
The disclosure goes
through
your own
through your own
through others
That is, you entrusted your
commercial secrets to the employee
within the framework of
the fulfillment of your
official duties.
He works with your
own.
Therefore, as a rule, all the work
on the protection of
disclosure of commercial secrets
through your own, it goes
through the motivation of the staff,
that is, so that the person does not want to
disclose the commercial secrets.
If he wants to disclose them,
well, as a rule, he will disclose them.
That is, it must be done so that he does not want to do it.
So, disclosure through others
is, let's call it
disclosure through people
who did not trust your commercial secrets.
That is, you do not give them access.
But they, having hacked some of your
protection funds, they got access to this information.
And basically everything
regarding the mechanism, algorithm,
let's say, protection of commercial secret
is, as a rule, protection
from strangers, not from their own, but from strangers.
So,
based on this, I will just try
to draw why
Article 183 of the Criminal Code
consists of four
parts and why
some parts are used, and some
parts are practically not used.
So, the first part
of this article
183 of the Criminal Code,
I will just read it a little more thoroughly.
For collecting information
consisting of commercial or bank secrets
by stealing documents, bribery
or threat, in an equally
illegal way in order to disclose
or illegally use this information,
a fine of up to 80 thousand rubles is provided
or a fine of up to 6 months
for the amount of the income of the convict,
or a term of up to 2 years for deprivation of freedom.
So, what is the first part?
First of all,
let's draw it like this,
it is protection from strangers.
So,
these are some people
whom you did not trust
with your commercial secrets,
they committed some illegal actions.
Here, some illegal actions
are listed,
such as stealing documents, bribery, threat,
in an equally illegal way.
Here, as a rule,
it is easy to prove.
Easy to prove.
That is,
the illegal way is easy enough
to prove, because it usually
leaves certain traces.
Here,
what is good in this part,
the first one,
is that there is no connection with damage.
No connection with damage.
That is,
a person can break
some of your access systems,
steal commercial secrets,
not to sell them to anyone,
that is, no damage has been done,
the information has not gone anywhere
further, the criminal has not gone.
All crimes are already considered legal,
and, in principle, you can bring to justice
in a day the responsibility for part 1 of this 183 article.
Here.
Well,
let's say,
all that follows from this is a fine
and up to 2 years.
This is the part that actually works,
which is applied, although
everything is limited by fines.
As far as I know,
the deprivation of freedom
if there were, then only conditionally.
But, nevertheless, this is the part that
is applied and which can really
work.
The second, third, and fourth part
is, in general, protection from your own.
The second part of this
183 article.
Illegal disclosure or use of information
that constitutes a commercial tax
or a bank secret without the
consent of the owner of the person
to whom it was known or became known
by service or work is punished
by a fine of up to 120 thousand rubles
or in terms of salary or new income
of the defendant for a period of up to
one year with the deprivation of the right
to occupy a certain position or to engage
in a certain activity for a period of up to
three years or deprivation of freedom
for a period of up to three years.
So, this part,
in fact, is protection
from your own.
From your own.
That is, you entrusted a person
with your commercial secrets,
he took on the obligation to keep
your commercial secrets, but, let's say,
somewhere he talked, somewhere he told,
and there was a leak
of confidential information.
So, here
what else is there to talk about?
Again, there is no connection
with damage.
That is, it is not tied to the fact
that there must be a certain damage.
That is, we are talking about the very fact
that we are keeping the commercial secrets,
the disclosure, we are keeping the confidential laws.
And here,
what else is special?
There is usually no mind.
Why not? Because the next part
is just about those situations
when the mind already exists.
And if you write the first part
further, you can say
that there is always a mind.
Because, let's say,
blackmail, bribery,
hacking of some safes, threats,
they usually do not exist without mind.
So, the second part
is that there is no mind.
That is, you can attract a person
to this part when, as a rule,
when he accidentally disclosed
the commercial secrets.
That is, he has no mind,
no interest.
I already gave this example at the beginning,
when you bring the person you need
to a restaurant, give him a drink,
and he will tell you about the commercial secrets.
Yes, this is already a criminal act,
but there is no mind here,
so it is about the second part,
Article 183.
And if we talk
in response,
all these fines are clear,
and if we talk about the deprivation of freedom,
up to three years.
So, the third part
of Article 183
is also a defense against one's own.
The same actions
that have caused major damage
or committed out of interest
are punished with a fine of up to 200,000 rubles
or in the amount of salary
or income of the defendant
for a period of up to 18 months
with the deprivation of the right
to occupy a certain position
or to engage in a certain activity
for a period of up to three years
or deprivation of freedom
for a period of up to five years.
So, what is the feature here?
The defense against one's own.
So, there is a connection
with damage.
There should be major damage.
Major damage
or out of interest.
Out of interest.
There should be a certain intention.
Roughly speaking,
if a person gives information
and gets a monetary reward
in return,
it falls under the third part
of Article 183.
And here,
what else
I could say?
I would like to emphasize
that this is evidence.
As a rule,
everything related to evidence
in this article
is carried out in such a way
that the evidence is not visible
or, as a rule,
it is of interest.
So, what are the options?
The security service
has information
that they want to get
the commercial secrets.
The security service
may have different activities.
It may be some kind of
preventive conversation.
What can be more serious?
We do everything
to get it to the court.
This is also a certain installation,
a certain decision.
Then this person is given
to get the commercial secrets.
He is not detained at the checkpoint.
The security service
is not detained at the checkpoint.
All the evidence is not refutable.
All this is recorded on video,
on audio.
All this becomes evidence of the basis.
Some kind of interest
is traced here.
The fourth part
of Article 183
is also protection
from one's own.
It is about the same actions
as part 2 or 3
of the current article,
which have serious consequences
and punish with a free sentence
up to 10 years.
This is protection from one's own.
And this should be
serious consequences.
Well,
serious consequences
when the commercial secret is disclosed
is a rare phenomenon.
Here it is up to 5 years.
Although it can be assumed
that the serious consequences
are all that is related to death.
These are the things.
If it happened,
then up to 10 years.
In practice,
part 1 is used,
part 3 is used.
When there is a good interest,
it is usually done
so that the evidence
for the court is not refutable.
Part 4 and 2 are used very rarely.
Unfortunately,
it is used quite difficultly.
At least this is one of the cases
in one of the directions.
Responsibility of the company's employees
is a very important issue.
What can be done
to prevent certain illegal actions?
In particular,
we have considered the issue
of the disclosure of commercial secrets.
The next topic, the next block that we will consider is information security.
Information security, I have already said, is a state of security of information resources of a company
achieved by means of a set of measures, I draw your attention to the set of measures, aimed at the protection of information.
If we are writing down information resources, here is the information,
it is divided into two large groups, these are open information resources,
that is, information resources that have no access restrictions.
As a rule, it is regulated by the law on the means of mass information,
and everything that concerns open information resources is not subject to information security.
And this is an information resource with limited access.
Let's call it that way, information with limited access.
Information with limited access is divided into two large groups,
this is state secret, this is confidential information.
Confidential information.
This is at the level of state information resources.
State secret is clear, there is a law on state secrets,
certain licenses are required, certain rules must be observed,
this is not a subject of our classes, our seminars.
Confidential information.
What is confidential information?
There is a presidential decree, 188, on the approval of the list of confidential information,
where it is written what confidential information is.
What is confidential information?
The first is personal data.
This is information about the facts, events and circumstances in a citizen's private life,
which allows you to identify his personality.
Just six months ago, the law on personal data was introduced,
where the rules of the game are prescribed on the market of personal data.
Personal data is protected,
and those organizations that face personal data must protect personal data.
In principle, any employer faces personal data,
so any employer must take measures to protect personal data of its employees.
There are articles in the Labor Code on personal data,
or rather on the protection of personal data of the employer.
Unfortunately, we must note that personal data is not well protected,
so a large number of personal data in semi-legal form is presented on the market
as part of some kind of personal data.
Nevertheless, this is an objective reality,
and I think that in time, order will be established here.
What is it?
This is a commercial secret.
I will talk about the commercial secret in more detail later.
There is a commercial secret law,
that is, there are rules of the game regarding how the commercial secret should be kept.
It should be borne in mind that any commercial structure can have a commercial secret.
This is legal information that represents a commercial value,
and this information can be in the company.
The next one is the so-called service secret.
This is a service secret.
There is a concept of a service secret,
but unfortunately, there is no law on the service secret at the legislative level,
so you can only guess what a service secret is.
In fact, this is information of state bodies,
which are subject to the closure of state bodies,
but do not fall under the regime of the state secret.
In a simplified version, this is the so-called DSP bar for service use.
As a rule, the service secret is related to the work of state bodies.
What else falls under confidential information?
Under confidential information, there are so-called professional secrets.
Professional secret.
Professional secret is where there is a certain profession.
At the legislative level, there are about 15 types of secrets related to certain professions.
The most common are the notary secret, the lawyer's secret, the medical secret, and so on.
This is also a section of confidential information.
This is a confidential matter of the shipyard.
This is confidential information about the essence of the invention,
the use of the model or industrial sample.
This is so-called confidential information.
I will stop at the commercial secret.
This is a direction of activity.
Many organizations are forming a commercial secret regime.
This activity arose after the adoption of the commercial secret law.
There are already certain developments that can be shared.
I will write it in abbreviated form.
The commercial secret.
The commercial secret appeared not yesterday and not 10 years ago.
At the level of the Russian state, before the revolution, there was a concept of a production secret.
In fact, this is a commercial secret.
After the revolution of 1917, there was a concept of a commercial secret.
Commercial activity was developed during the NEP.
After the NEP, when commercial activity ceased to exist, the concept of a commercial secret was abolished.
In 1990, when a new regulatory base was created,
when the law on the basis of business activity in the USSR was adopted,
the concept of a commercial secret was born.
The Civil Code has an entire article on the commercial secret.
This article regulates the existence of a commercial secret,
the possibility of protecting the commercial secret in all legal ways,
and the responsibility for the disclosure of the commercial secret.
These are the three fundamental points that are in the Civil Code on the commercial secret.
At the level of the law, this problem also arose in the 1990s.
Somewhere in 1998, the commercial secret bill existed.
It was not fully implemented.
The commercial secret law was implemented only in 2004,
when it was signed by the President.
What does it say?
What do I want to draw your attention to when we talk about the commercial secret law?
There are some fundamental points that you should know if you are going to create a commercial secret regime.
The information that constitutes a commercial secret must be recorded on material media.
What is it about?
If it is not recorded on material media, you cannot create a commercial secret regime.
Material media can be either paper media or electronic media.
Electronic media must be recorded on material media.
It can be floppy disks, hard drives, hard drives, anything.
The second point is the legal way to obtain a commercial secret.
It has always been believed that a commercial secret can be stolen,
that it can be obtained in some illegal way.
A commercial secret is a commodity that can be bought or sold.
It can be obtained as a result of systematic investigations.
The third point is what cannot be a commercial secret.
It cannot be a commercial secret.
Countries in the world have developed in two different ways.
Some countries have decided what can be a commercial secret.
The law states that information about this or that can be a commercial secret.
Other countries, including Russia, have taken a different path.
We have decided on the level of the law, before that there was a government resolution,
and we have decided to keep our commercial secrets as an exception.
It is considered a more democratic method.
However, when this problem first arose in the early 1990s,
it was not clear what a commercial secret should be.
What cannot be a commercial secret?
The first thing that cannot be a commercial secret is identification data.
Identification data.
All the information about identification data can be a set of documents,
documents confirming the registration of legal entities and individual entrepreneurs
in accordance with the Regulations of the State, documents giving the right to engage in entrepreneurial activity,
that is, licenses, a list of individuals who have the right to act without confidence, and so on.
The next point is what cannot be a commercial secret.
As far as I understand, identification data never tries to be a commercial secret,
on the contrary, all licenses and patents are put in a frame somewhere in plain sight.
Everything that concerns workers and working conditions.
Information about workers and working conditions in commercial and non-commercial organizations cannot be a commercial secret.
What is it about? The number of workers, the availability of free jobs,
the system of labor payment, labor conditions, labor security,
the employment of employers on the basis of salary payment, social payments,
the indicators of production trauma, and so on.
All this information cannot be a commercial secret.
Here, the question usually arises about the labor payment system.
That is, it is possible or impossible to make absolute figures, that is, a salary is a commercial secret.
There are different approaches.
In principle, the labor payment system can be quite simple,
advance payment, payment and bonus.
This cannot be a commercial secret.
In principle, I think that you can make your commercial secrets in absolute quantities.
The issue is quite controversial, even at the level of judicial decisions.
Information about non-commercial organizations cannot be a commercial secret.
The size of income and expenditure structures, the size of the total property, the use of unpaid labor, and so on.
The point is that a commercial secret is not clearly tied to a commercial organization.
A commercial secret can be in a state enterprise.
Here, at the level of the law, it is not limited to the fact that a commercial secret is necessarily a commercial enterprise.
Just terminology.
Information about state enterprises, state enterprises, state enterprises, unitary enterprises and state institutions,
the composition of property, the use of funds of appropriate budgets, conditions of competitions, auctions, and so on.
Here is an interesting point.
Everything related to information is related to the implementation of security requirements.
The implementation of security requirements.
What is this about?
This is about the security of citizens.
According to the logic of the law, corporate security is not taken into account.
Security of all citizens is taken into account.
Corporate security, security of the organization, security of the legal entity, is usually a commercial secret.
This is some kind of classified information.
We are talking about the security of citizens.
Pollution of the environment, state of fire safety, sanitary, epidemiological and radiation situation.
Roughly speaking, if there is a factory and it dumps some not very useful substances into the river,
then the information that it does this cannot be a commercial secret.
If some products are produced, that there are some not very useful products or ingredients for a person,
information about this cannot be a commercial secret.
Everything related to corporate security is usually a commercial secret.
Information about violations of the law cannot be a commercial secret.
Information about the obligation to disclose them or the inability to restrict them is established by various federal laws.
Everything else can be a commercial secret.
Generally, there are some methods of determining a commercial secret.
At the level of our law on commercial secrets, ideology is all that is allowed and all that is not prohibited.
Therefore, the method exists, such a concept as a total method.
Although in practice, as far as I know, it is practically not applied, but in general, it exists.
How does the situation work?
All the information resources of the company are taken,
from there information resources that cannot be a commercial secret are taken out,
everything related to open information is removed,
because it makes no sense to close information that can be obtained in the open.
The state secret is removed, some other information is removed, and everything else is done in a commercial secret.
This is a total method, all the information that can be disclosed.
As a rule, this is a very expensive event, and rarely any companies can afford to close their information resources.
Therefore, other methods are usually used,
or there is such a concept as the plagiarism method.
What does the plagiarism mean?
It assumes that there is such a concept as a plagiarism, that is, a methodology, I would say.
A company is taken, which is approximately similar to yours in terms of volume,
in terms of the number of people, in terms of the produced product or provided services.
If there is a commercial secret mode, then it is looked at and determined what is done in that company.
And do the same thing in your company, because the companies work on the same market.
It is widely used.
There is a method called the expert method.
Expert, as a rule, is the attraction of experts, that is, the attraction of specialists from the outside.
And there is a method called the analytical method.
Analytical.
That is, a certain analysis of the company's activities is carried out from the point of view of what is necessary to do in a commercial secret.
Basically, the analytical method is based on what?
It is based on what interests the competitor.
That is, they try to put themselves in the shoes of competitors and try to understand what can interest the competitor.
And the second direction of the analytical method is what will cause damage.
That is, we try to understand what information can damage the disclosure.
Based on this, they try to determine what information should be included in the commercial secret.
From these methods, the first, second and fourth, this company can do it on its own.
The third method, that is, the attraction of experts, is that you find an organization, pay them money, and based on these three methods, they try to determine everything.
This is based on methods.
Now the next point.
The law, if we analyze it this way, is very organizational.
That is, you will not find any innovations there, you will not find any rigidly regulating things applicable to your company.
It is very organizational.
That is, it is general and very organizational.
That is, rights, duties, what can be done, what cannot be done.
Naturally, each company creates its own commercial secret regime and creates it for itself.
Here, by the way, is a very subtle point that I would like to draw your attention to.
At least, many companies face this.
If you have to pass your commercial secret to some other organization, within the framework of something, within the framework of consulting, within the framework of some kind of contractual cooperation,
keep in mind that the commercial secret regime in another organization can be completely different.
Unlike, say, the state secret regime, which is unified at all enterprises, where there are state secrets, and throughout Russia.
The commercial secret regime is unique, it is individual, it is created directly in each company, and is approved by the management of the company.
In your company, the commercial secret regime can be very strong and very serious.
You will pass it on to some other company, there may be a completely different regime, and everything may be completely different, much worse.
Therefore, keep this in mind.
And, in principle, I would not recommend passing commercial secrets anywhere.
That is, you can talk about the serious preservation of commercial secrets only when these commercial secrets are with you.
As soon as you pass your commercial secrets somewhere, you can very conditionally say that these commercial secrets will be protected or preserved.
Another point I would like to emphasize is the relationship between enterprises and various state bodies within the framework of the commercial secret regime.
It is clear that there are controlling law enforcement agencies that can come to the company and carry out some actions.
This can be within the framework of inspection activities, it can be within the framework of investigative activities, it can be within the framework of operational activities.
It is pointless and impossible to protect yourself from this with the help of commercial secrets,
simply because, according to our legislation, you must provide information on the motivated requirements of these state bodies, including the component of the commercial secret.
This will not limit or limit various inspections.
Another thing is that if you provide your commercial secrets to state bodies, they take on the obligation to preserve your commercial secrets.
The next point I would like to draw your attention to is the so-called commercial secret regime.
The regime of the CT.
It is impossible to say that we have a commercial secret or not.
You can say that there is a commercial secret regime only when you conduct a number of events that will allow you to say that you have a commercial secret regime.
And, of course, all the consequences resulting from this.
I have already said, I emphasize again, that the commercial secret regime is an individual event.
The commercial secret regime is individual for each company and it can be different in different companies.
The commercial secret regime is determined by the company's manager.
That is, he approves certain documents that say what the commercial secret regime is and how it will be implemented.
There is no maximum list of events on the commercial secret regime.
There is a minimum number of events that you have to do to say that you have a commercial secret regime.
This minimum is listed in the law of the commercial secret regime.
I will now talk about them in more detail.
There is no maximum, of course.
According to the Civil Code and the law of the commercial secret regime,
a company can implement any legal methods and methods of protecting its commercial secrets.
I emphasize, legal methods, but any.
What is the minimum on the commercial secret regime?
What is the minimum that must be done?
The first is to determine the information component of the commercial secret.
That is, you must determine what your commercial secret is.
There are certain subtleties and difficulties.
How does it usually happen?
Usually, the security service is tasked with creating a list of information components of the commercial secret.
The security service usually sends out letters to the structural units asking for suggestions
on including some information components in the section of the commercial secret.
The unit is based on the fact that the more information is hidden, the better.
The security service composes and analyzes all this,
and throws out at least half of it,
because it makes no sense to hide information resources that can be openly available.
Therefore, they usually try to protect the most serious and potentially significant information.
If this succeeds, then they will expand this list of information.
Therefore, as a recommendation, if you are going to do the commercial secret regime,
try to close the smallest part of your information resources.
This may not be very expensive and easy to organize.
If you succeed, then try to expand this list.
No one forbids you to periodically revise it, expand it, narrow it down.
It's up to you.
What will you face here?
The list of information components of the commercial secret is usually information about.
This is some information about what information is subject to closure.
Usually, this is 1, 2, maximum 3 pages.
The difficulty is to determine what is under these information.
You can close the company's plan documents.
The plan document of the company is the commercial secret.
This is information that is subject to closure.
Then there should be a person, a person in office,
who would determine what documents are distributed to these plan documents of the company.
In the list, it can be one item, but in reality, it can be hundreds, thousands of documents.
Every day there will be a couple of dozen more documents.
It is much more difficult to determine which documents are related to the company's plan documents.
It is much more difficult.
Determining the information component of the commercial secret and, of course, its approval of this list.
It is usually approved either by order, the classic form, that is, the order of the company's manager.
Such information about this, about that, is related to the commercial secret.
This is a classic option.
Sometimes this option is used, it is just an approval signature.
That is, I approve, there is a general director, where the list of information components of the commercial secret will also be listed.
This is the first thing to do to determine the commercial secret regime.
The second thing that is usually done.
In the law, this is a huge set of measures.
This is a restriction of access to information.
Restriction of access to information.
This is a whole set of measures, including personnel, organizational, regime, technical, and other things,
concerning the restriction of access to information.
That is, you have determined that some information is a commercial secret, and then you must restrict access to this information.
If this is a small number of documents or a small number of information resources, this can be done.
As soon as these information resources take up half of the company's information resources,
this is very difficult, very expensive, and usually it is simply not feasible.
Therefore, in any case, if you have a leak of information,
you will have to prove that you have restricted access to this information.
Here is a criminal, he committed a crime and violated your access restriction system.
That is, if you determine that the company's plan documents are a commercial secret,
and these papers are printed out, lying around,
then you don't have to talk about the commercial secret regime, because no one will do any hacking.
That is, the information will be lost in any case.
This is the second restriction of access to information.
The third restriction of access to information is the solution of personnel problems.
What is it usually?
This is the definition of the people you will trust the information.
The definition of the circle of persons.
That is, the definition of those people you will trust your commercial secrets.
There can be not many of them,
you usually define certain people, personally,
for example, Ivanov, Petrov, Sidorov, have access to commercial secrets.
Moreover, it is not necessary to allow a person to access all your commercial information.
We are talking about permission to commercial secrets only within the framework of fulfilling your duties.
If this is a financial person, then everything that concerns finances.
If this is a technologist, then everything that concerns technology.
But you have to define the circle of persons.
And this circle of persons must be officially approved.
Basically, it is determined through an order that Ivanov, Petrov, Sidorov are allowed to access official or commercial information.
These employees must take obligations.
Take obligations.
Take obligations to keep commercial secrets.
That is, you have defined a person,
after that, a person must take obligations to keep commercial secrets.
But usually, what are the options for taking obligations?
They can be taken, for example, within the framework of labor relations, within the framework of a labor agreement,
where one of the parameters is laid down that the preservation of the secrets is protected by the law,
which has become known within the framework of fulfilling the duties of the employee.
This can be a separate agreement or a separate agreement on the preservation of commercial secrets.
By analogy, there is a contract on the preservation of the bank secret.
In legal systems, this blank exists.
It is taken approximately by analogy.
That is, a person takes obligations.
Moreover, I would recommend to conclude a separate agreement, a separate agreement,
simply because in a separate agreement, a separate agreement,
you can describe in great detail, let's say, many points.
In particular, what is understood under the disclosure of a commercial secret.
That is, this is a rather specific thing.
And what is the disclosure of a commercial secret?
There, again, from the point of view of psychological impact on a potential offender,
that is, there is a certain psychological impact when a person concludes a separate agreement.
And then criminal, administrative, labor and so on.
This is more effective from the point of view of psychology.
In a separate agreement, in a separate agreement,
it can be prescribed that a person after dismissal keeps your commercial secrets.
Moreover, if we read according to the law, then even by default there is a certain period,
it is three years.
That is, if a person has taken on himself the obligation to preserve a commercial secret,
but did not prescribe it for what period,
then by default it is considered that within three years after dismissal,
the employee is obliged to keep your commercial secrets.
In practice, let's say, it is quite difficult to control,
and even more difficult to bring a person to responsibility.
Therefore, if you want a person to keep your commercial secrets after dismissal,
it is better to conclude a separate agreement,
because the labor agreement is terminated with the termination of labor relations.
And there, as a rule, it is difficult to apply the norms
regarding what happens after termination of labor relations.
Therefore, it is better to conclude a separate agreement.
In any case, such obligations in one form or another must be taken.
So, the framework of the issue, the solution is that employees must know what the commercial secret is.
That is, a person takes on the obligation to preserve a commercial secret,
he must be informed that the information that we trust you with is a commercial secret.
And he must sign it.
That is, any action must be signed.
He takes on the obligation, he must sign it.
He is pleased with what is a commercial secret, he must sign it.
And in relation to personnel issues, I will probably also draw your attention to the fact that
it is very important to create conditions for employees to perform the commercial secret regime.
What is it?
As a rule, if a commercial secret regime is created, a certain normative base is formed,
instructions are created, where it is clearly regulated what can be done, what cannot be done.
This is applicable to specific people, to specific official duties.
This is the first thing.
And the second thing is that if you prescribe that an employee must store a commercial document,
a document that constitutes a commercial secret, in a safe, then you must at least put this safe in it.
These are obvious things.
Nevertheless, this is also a certain commercial secret regime that must be.
The next thing, everything that concerns the commercial secret regime, is the regulation of relations with counteragents.
Let's call it the regulation of contractual relations.
What is it about?
The regulation of contractual relations.
If you transfer your commercial secrets to other organizations within the framework of some work,
then in the contract on the basis of which you provide this information,
you must prescribe that another organization, where you transfer all this, must keep your commercial secrets,
apply all the measures of protection, you can prescribe that you can control the measures that another organization will apply.
Always assume that the commercial secret regime is individual,
and another organization may have a much worse regime, simply because they see it that way.
This must also be done in a mandatory manner.
And perhaps the last thing that concerns the commercial secret regime,
the minimum that you must do, is the application of a distinctive neck to a material carrier.
The application of a distinctive neck to a material carrier.
Let's call it KT.
Of course, I am decoding it.
The commercial secret.
As I said at the beginning, the commercial secret must be fixed on the material carriers.
These material carriers, it can be a paper carrier, it can be an electronic carrier,
they must have a certain restrictive neck.
A regular restrictive neck is a commercial secret with an indication of whether it has this information,
for legal entities, a full name and location,
for individual entrepreneurs, the surname, name, address, citizen, who are an individual entrepreneur, a place of residence.
This does not always suit companies,
because as soon as a commercial secret appears on some paper,
the employees immediately start thinking about how to sell this document to make money on it.
Therefore, sometimes this is not applicable to some organizations, to some companies,
but in principle, it is legally obligatory.
Here is a list of events, a minimum of events that must be done to create a commercial secret.
Here is another rather subtle point regarding the neck.
At the legislative level, it is not determined whether this neck can be divided into some sub-necks.
Confidential, strictly confidential, commercial secret, strictly commercial secret, special commercial secret.
At the legislative level, this is not the case, so I would not recommend doing this,
simply because it is not in the law.
If there are any problems and a judicial decision is required,
then there may be different approaches to these problems.
Now, the next point.
The commercial secret has certain characteristics.
The characteristics of a commercial secret are its commercial value,
that is, you cannot hide information that is not a commercial value for you.
Although the approach is quite individual, for different companies,
the commercial value may have different information,
that is, different information may have different commercial value.
This is inaccessibility, this is mandatory,
that is, you must restrict access to information in a mandatory manner.
This is security, that is, a certain commercial secret regime must be created.
This is an unlimited security period.
Here is a rather subtle point,
due to the fact that at the legislative level,
the period during which you create a commercial secret regime is not specified.
It can be a year, it can be half a year, it can be one day.
That is, you can create a commercial secret regime for one day.
You can create a commercial secret regime for 100 years,
that is, depending on the need,
unlike, say, some other restrictive rights,
in the form of copyright, there is a clear, definite period.
The commercial secret period is not defined,
it is up to the company's managers.
Now the question arises,
what does it usually mean to have a commercial secret?
I have already mentioned some methods that exist.
There are certain approaches.
What should we attribute to a commercial secret?
As far as I understand,
this problem is usually a technology.
If the company has some technologies,
so-called know-how,
that is, some technological innovations,
that is, technological moments,
then, as a rule, if a commercial secret regime is created,
it is necessarily included there.
This can be,
let's say, some kind of management information.
Management information.
That is, everything that concerns management issues.
I have already mentioned this.
This is all about the company's plans.
First of all, this refers to some kind of strategic plan,
that is, strategic development plans, and everything else.
This is all about financial issues.
Financial.
There are things that you have to introduce
into the commercial secret regime.
In particular, in the accounting law,
if I'm not mistaken,
accounting records should be related to confidential information.
The rest of the things should be considered
depending on the financial documents.
This is analytics.
Especially if you have an analytical unit in your company
that analyzes the situation,
that is, it can conduct some analytical work,
make some analytical reports, documents.
The results of these analytical studies,
as a rule, belong to the commercial secret regime.
Despite the fact that they can be obtained from open sources,
that is, from the same mass media,
they can already have limited access to do some analytical work.
This is all about the information of negotiations.
This includes who,
or rather, what companies are negotiated with,
what topic, what conditions, everything that concerns.
Everything that concerns some kind of contracts,
contracts in business relations.
Pricing policy,
it can be the terms of the contract,
benefits, and everything else.
There may be some other things.
That is, naturally, each company,
depending on what it does,
it compiles its information
related to the commercial secret.
So...
Well, here, probably,
this is what I would like to emphasize again.
Will you create the commercial secret regime?
You will not.
These are your questions.
If you create the commercial secret regime,
then try to close a very small amount of information first.
If you succeed, then gradually expand.
Because closing information is a rather expensive method.
And, as a rule,
not all companies can seriously approach this.
And they cannot seriously allocate serious funds
to protect, to close information.
If it is half a percent of information resources,
you can still close.
If you are trying to close 30% of information resources,
yes, it is possible, but it is very expensive.
So, this is about the commercial secret.
Well, in relation to the responsibility
for disclosure of the commercial secret,
I will not talk about it now,
because I have already talked about it
in the section called personnel security.
So, here, probably,
this is what I would like to focus on.
So, this is about, let's say,
in general, protection of information with limited access.
So, all protection of information with limited access,
in general, I have already said that it is complex.
That is, you cannot protect information resources
just with some piece.
The forms in which the information is located
are determined by means of these forms,
the methods of protection of information are determined.
So, as a rule, everything that concerns a complex solution,
protection,
is organizational measures,
is legal measures,
is technical measures.
Technically, IT security measures are included here,
and protection from channels of information leakage is included.
This is a confidential matter of production,
an official matter of production.
And this is, let's call it, a regime event.
A regime event.
Now, in a nutshell,
I would like to talk about a confidential matter of production,
because I mentioned it,
and now I will just remind you about a confidential matter of production.
So, the question related to a confidential matter of production.
This is also a component of IT security.
As I said,
this is one of the directions,
some events are related to IT security.
So, when does a confidential matter of production occur?
A confidential matter of production.
Naturally, it occurs, first of all,
when some information is protected,
this is clear.
And the second, when confidential information is presented in the form of certain documents,
they can be material, paper, electronic.
The point is that these documents are created somewhere,
they are moved somewhere, stored somewhere,
some resolutions are applied to them,
something is done on them,
that is, when there are certain documents of circulation.
If these two conditions coincide,
then it is necessary to create a confidential matter of production.
It consists of two parts,
in such a classic version.
This is all that concerns the material matter of production.
Material.
Confidential matter of production.
Everything that concerns the electronic.
Electronic.
Confidential matter of production.
It occurs only when there is such a concept as an electronic document.
The concept of an electronic document can only be understood
when the authorship and authenticity of this electronic document is carried out,
that is, when the electronic digital signature is applied.
If you do not apply an electronic digital signature in the company,
then, in general, it is pointless to create an electronic confidential matter of production.
It will no longer be an electronic matter of production,
but an electronic copy of the material matter of production.
As soon as the ECP arises,
you can create an electronic confidential matter of production.
Please note that there is a law on electronic digital signatures,
where certain rules of the game with the ECP are defined.
A law on information, information technologies and information protection has also been adopted recently,
where the electronic digital signature is recognized as an analogue of the confidential signature.
Both the document signed by the electronic digital signature
and the document signed by the confidential signature have the same legal power.
But regarding the electronic digital signature,
we also note that this is not a protection of information.
The goal of the electronic digital signature is to confirm the authorship and authenticity of the document.
That is, protection should be built separately.
This is not a means of protection, but a means of authorship and authenticity.
Everything that concerns the material matter of production,
it consists of two directions.
This is everything that concerns the document of circulation.
And this is everything that concerns the archive, the information storage.
In the simplified version of the archive, it is like an archive.
In the more complex version of the archive, there is only the concept of an active archive.
That is, the documents are submitted there,
and from there they can be obtained.
And it is necessary to check whether there is permission for these documents,
which are submitted to the archive, whether the documents are returned,
whether copies are made of them, whether they are changed.
That is, the so-called life of the archive.
Confidential case of production.
Before creating a confidential case of production,
the game rules are usually determined by some round stones.
In particular, what to determine.
That is, what questions should be answered before creating a confidential case of production.
The first thing to do, let's say, when creating a confidential case of production,
is to determine who appropriates and removes the neck.
This is a rather unimportant question,
because you have determined that, for example, the planned documents of the company are a commercial secret.
Then there should be some official who would determine
what documents the company's planned documents contain,
which documents to include in the confidential case of production.
This is a rather difficult option.
You can go along the way that,
usually in small organizations, some official determines this.
You can go along the way that the document's executor determines
whether the confidential information of this document is confidential,
whether to include it or not in the confidential case of production.
So, let's say, what documents should be included in the confidential case of production.
This is also an important question,
because in the classic case,
the documents containing or making up the commercial secret are included in the confidential case of production.
But in practice, there are a lot of documents that need to be included in this confidential case of production.
These are some strict reporting forms, some numbered documents and everything else.
So, what kind of accounting is determined?
What is it about?
There are two options for accounting documents.
It can be manual accounting or automated accounting.
One of the distinguishing features of the confidential case of production is strict accounting control.
Any document that is created,
it is assigned a number, it must be registered,
the number of copies that are taken from it must be determined,
which officials can get acquainted with it.
If Ivanov gave it to Petrov,
it means that it is necessary to clearly record that at that time Ivanov gave the document to Petrov.
That is, strict accounting control.
It can be handled in a manual version,
that is, in the form of various magazines, registers, notes, and so on.
It can be handled in an electronic version.
Now there are quite a lot of products that are handled in an electronic version of the confidential case of production.
This must be determined.
It is determined, let's say, how to create.
How to create?
It is about two options,
separately or on the basis of the open one.
It is clear that in any company there is an open case of production.
There is a case of production gospel,
where documents are written, how to design, how to create, how to send.
The confidential case of production can be created on the basis of the open case of production,
that is, some information sections are allocated, which are closed,
safes are inserted, and so on.
This is the first option, it is perhaps the simplest and most common.
The second option is to create a confidential case of production separately,
that is, in no way connected with the open case of production.
This option is also possible, there are pluses and minuses,
you need to proceed with a specific situation.
What is determined?
How are documents created?
How and where are they created?
Some premises are determined,
where you can create a confidential case of production.
The officials who can create documents are determined.
The means of protection are established,
technical means, all sorts of, say, alarms, and so on.
It is determined how to store, how to create,
how to create, how to store confidential documents.
Well, the storage is generally clear,
the main goal here is to make it so that the unauthorized persons
exclude access to these documents.
Basically, these are either safes or systems,
say, some kind of metal cabinets.
Everything depends on the need, value, and safety of these documents.
In terms of storage, the moment of destruction of documents is determined.
There are different approaches to destruction.
The classic option is destruction in shredders,
special machines for shredding documents.
They come in different classes.
There are shredders that cut a sheet of paper only along,
and there are shredders that cut a sheet of paper not only along, but also across.
There are shredders that are guaranteed not to be restored.
That is, they cut such a small number of particles,
A4, in my opinion, for 15,000 parts.
Basically, they cut a standard sheet of A4 into powder.
I would recommend using shredders that are guaranteed not to be restored,
that is, those that cut not only along, but also across.
If necessary, you can buy large shredders.
There are shredders that can destroy a whole pack of papers at once.
They are expensive, but the principle is the same.
The same knives, just bigger, and the same motors, only more powerful.
They are expensive, but if necessary, there are also such shredders.
I would recommend setting up a rule in the company,
which says that any company documents should be destroyed using shredders.
Because as soon as you start to determine that these documents can be put in a garbage basket,
these documents can be put in shredders,
usually, again, taking into account the human factor,
someone will confuse something, someone will throw something wrong.
Therefore, it may make sense to determine that all documents are destroyed using shredders.
And garbage baskets are intended for apple peels, banana peels, empty cans of beer, etc.
Here is what I would like to draw your attention to in relation to the destruction of documents.
This is a collegiality of destruction.
It may make sense to make such a procedure in the organization,
that some confidential documents are destroyed collegially.
That is, a commission is created,
this can be the executor of the document and the security service employee,
who is signed that this sheet of paper was not turned into a tube and not taken out,
but it was destroyed.
This may be unacceptable in many companies,
because it is a bureaucratic procedure, it distracts the forces of the means.
But in some situations and according to some confidential documents, this is probably possible.
This is for destruction.
You can destroy documents by burning,
although it is probably convenient when there are a lot of documents.
If there are not many documents, it makes sense to use shredders.
In relation to the destruction of documents, what else is determined?
As a rule, the order of the transfer of confidential documents is determined.
Here, what I will draw your attention to,
in any case, there will be a need to transfer some confidential documents,
move some documents,
some documents will be taken by the management to work at home.
Unfortunately, this is an objective reality.
Ideally, the document should not go beyond the controlled room.
But life is multifaceted, and this is why such situations arise.
You can foresee such situations,
and it makes sense to determine some order of transferring documents from the controlled territory.
In the vast majority of cases, a certain permission is required.
How is it determined?
A permission is required.
The official who gives this permission is required.
When moving between objects,
usually several people move the confidential document in their car.
That is, a driver goes, a person with a document goes.
It is forbidden for them to deviate from the route,
it is forbidden to take passengers,
it is forbidden to enter some five-star hotels.
But there should be an order of transfer plus an order of movement.
The order of movement is beyond the control zone.
Usually, the order of transferring confidential documents is determined.
The order of transferring confidential documents is about the provision,
for example, within the framework of some verification activities.
We are talking about the creation of certain algorithms in action.
For example, a tax office, a police, a fire brigade, or anyone else comes.
They can require certain documents within the framework of verification activities.
What is the order of providing these documents within the framework of verification activities?
This order must be regulated, determined.
It should not go beyond the framework of the current legislation.
But in order to regulate it, it is necessary to introduce a certain order,
that is, there must be some kind of instruction.
Here you can include the order of providing information,
for example, in the Internet resource,
the order of providing confidential information,
for example, at some negotiations, at some exhibition events.
That is, it is the confidential documents.
And, probably, a certain control is determined.
Control over the confidential production.
Control can be…
Well, I have already said that various control measures can go both planned and unplanned.
Control over the copying and multiplying technique,
control over multiplication, printing, sending documents.
Unfortunately, the modern office is flooded with various copying and multiplying techniques.
Any confidential document does not imply unauthorized multiplication.
Therefore, it is necessary to clearly track the number of copies made,
who met which copy and where they are.
Therefore, there must be a certain control.
Technical means are also included here.
Control over the copying of information from the computer,
for example, on the movement of documents on the network,
on the sending of confidential documents,
for example, by email, and so on.
I would probably include control here,
and the question of who will be subject to the confidential production.
That is, the management of the company must have a certain designated official,
to whom the confidential production will be closed.
That is, who will solve the issues of the confidential production.
Because, as a rule, there are a lot of issues and problems in the confidential production,
which require solutions, including at the level of the management.
This is the confidential production.
When all these issues are determined,
the confidential production is created,
the necessary equipment is purchased,
the necessary regulatory documents are created,
personnel training is carried out,
and then this system, when properly operated, should work.
Here, look at the automated systems of the confidential production on the market.
They are presented, they are configured for a specific organization,
they can be sold as scramble systems.
Therefore, the issues that are solved,
they must be solved in accordance with the answers to the issues that you have set for yourself.
Economic security
The next topic that we will discuss is economic security.
I will remind you that economic security,
economic security,
in fact, is the security of business processes that take place in the company.
It is built in several directions.
This is business intelligence.
Business intelligence.
This is information and analytical work.
This is analysis and risk management.
Economic risks.
This is protection against fraud.
Protection against fraud.
This can be protection against hostile absorption.
Hostile absorption.
This can be protection against some illegal actions,
depending on the company's activities.
If this is the financial sphere,
then protection against illegal actions,
such as non-return of loans,
with plastic cards,
with fraud in plastic cards, etc.
This is more protection against fraud.
Economic security.
This topic is very extensive.
I can talk for hours about economic security.
I will probably stop at one direction,
and I will talk about business intelligence.
Business intelligence.
There are different interpretations.
There is corporate intelligence,
there is competitive intelligence,
there is business intelligence.
In fact, business intelligence is built in two directions.
This is information work.
This is analytical work.
This is a kind of information collection,
and this is done exclusively by legal means.
Business intelligence does not engage in illegal methods.
Information collection is also industrial espionage.
There may be non-ethical methods,
but legal ones.
Analytical work is done from the point of view of business intelligence.
There are two directions in business intelligence.
The first direction is strategic.
The second direction is operational.
The third direction is strategic.
What is a strategic direction?
It is a solution of strategic tasks
from the perspective of the security of the organization.
What do I mean by strategic tasks?
This is the analysis of the legislation
from the point of view of a particular company,
that is, in the field of activity of a particular company.
This is an analysis of the competitive environment,
that is, what companies exist in this market,
how they develop, what threats they pose.
This is an analysis of the market as a whole,
the analysis of the possibility of the emergence of some products or substitutes,
the analysis of some resources of this market,
the analysis of the needs of this market.
These are quite similar things
from the point of view of strategic planning.
Although business intelligence
is about threats and risks.
Strategic planning can come from the point of view of profit,
business intelligence comes from the point of view of threats.
The operational direction is a private local direction.
Usually, it is about checking a particular company,
a particular organization.
You want to conclude an agreement with a particular organization,
you want to see what kind of organization it is,
what it is like,
whether it will pay for its obligations,
who is behind this company,
and how decent this company is.
This is a so-called payment capability check,
or partner reliability.
This is a local operational direction.
Information is collected for negotiations.
That is, it is planned to carry out some negotiations
with a person or an organization.
Information is collected for negotiations.
Or, in the vast majority of cases,
this is a collection of information before concluding a deal.
If you work as a swordsman's watchman,
in a twelve-chair,
in the morning money, in the evening chair,
this is very relevant.
If you work with the source,
that is, first you send money somewhere,
then you wait for some product,
or vice versa, you send a product,
then you wait for money,
then it makes sense to check
whether the organization will pay for the debts that do not exist.
There are stages of business intelligence.
I will dwell on them a little.
The first stage is the task setting.
The more correct and clear you set the task,
the easier and cheaper it will be
to go into business intelligence.
Because the task must always be set clearly
based on the questions
you want to get an answer to.
This is about the same as the lie detector test,
which I talked about in the security video.
That is, you can't just test a person on a lie detector.
As a rule, they test the answer to some questions.
The same cannot be done
when you ask to collect all the information
from some company,
but it will be completely useless for use.
That is, you need to set the task in the following way.
Collect the information I need
to make a decision.
The decision may be to sign a contract with this company
or not.
The information is collected and analytical work is carried out
from the point of view of the organization's payability.
You need to pay attention to this
because you need to set the question very clearly and correctly.
The second stage is the information collection.
There are different methods of collecting information.
I will talk about them in more detail.
That is, they collect information
in various methods.
The third stage is the evaluation of information.
This is about translating it into information.
Information is some kind of information.
To make a decision, it is pointless to collect information.
You need to collect it,
evaluate it and transfer the information to the data.
The data is different from the information
because the data is already evaluated.
The evaluation can take place in different directions.
From the point of view of reliability,
completeness, relevance,
secrecy, reliability of the source and so on.
The fourth stage is the analysis.
After the information is translated into the data,
analytical work is carried out based on this data.
Again, this is done to answer the questions
that are initially put in the task.
The fifth stage is the preparation of conclusions.
The preparation of conclusions is usually done
in the form of a certain document.
This is an information-analytical note,
a reference.
It is made up of two parts.
This is the information part.
The information that has been collected
is stated here.
The information is then collected
and the information that has been collected is stated.
This is either information or certain information.
The part that is dedicated to the answers to those questions.
The conclusions should be the answer
to the questions that were asked.
Here you need to start from the fact
that business intelligence
is a prediction of the future.
An attempt to find out what will happen.
Will the organization pay its debts?
Will it fulfill its obligations?
Or not?
Therefore, the conclusions are usually not categorical.
Certain terminologies are carried out.
The most likely is the possibility.
If you can calculate the percentage,
the percentage is calculated.
It is difficult to calculate the percentage.
This is possible when you can apply
mathematical calculations or statistics.
There is a poll at the elections.
You can say that a certain percentage
will vote for Ivanov and Ivan Ivanovich.
You can make a certain percentage
based on statistics in an information-analytical note.
If this cannot be done,
then you can use terminologies.
This is a gradation of the five-point system.
Very likely, likely, unlikely,
unlikely.
Again, it depends on how you look at it.
You can look at a bottle half empty
or a bottle half full.
You can say that Ivanov and Ivan Ivanovich
will win the elections with a 50% chance.
Petrov and Petrovich will win with a 50% chance.
Therefore, you should be careful
with conclusions.
It is desirable to do so,
so that later it is not so shameful
for the conclusions you have presented.
I will focus on two things.
This is information collection and information analysis.
What are the methods of information collection?
There are so-called office methods.
They are easy to access.
What do I include here?
These are various media
that can be easily obtained
by using the information collection
and information analysis.
I will not go into details.
I will just show you
the methods of information collection.
Here is the Internet.
There is a large number of Internet resources
that can be used for business intelligence.
You can include various books, CD-ROMs,
databases, etc.
These are the methods that can be used
for obtaining information without leaving the office.
There is a concept of office hard-to-access methods.
Office hard-to-access methods.
This is about collecting this information
without leaving the office.
There are certain difficulties
in obtaining this information.
For example, there are some information arrays
that are difficult to read.
They are in Chinese.
They can be translated,
but it requires some effort.
For example, the translator's effort is required.
There can be some closed reports,
some unpublished collections or reference books, etc.
There are methods that require
leaving the office.
They are called field methods.
What I mean by field methods
is various surveys, interviews,
exhibitions, observations, presentations.
You can come to a research firm,
observe the company's activities
for a certain period of time.
You can understand whether this firm is alive or not.
You can understand whether someone leaves the firm
or not, whether some cars enter the firm
or not.
You can understand the number of cars
that leave the firm, etc.
There are so-called operational methods.
What do they imply?
They imply the implementation of certain
operational events.
These are events related to certain games.
This is an example of a game
or a visit to a restaurant
and to infuse a person with a drink.
These are also operational methods.
A meeting of a light chess player
with the company's secretary
is also an operational method.
There are so-called expert methods.
Expert methods imply the attraction of experts.
There is a number of organizations
that provide information resources.
There are many information companies
that can collect information
about a particular organization,
conduct analysis of the region,
industry, etc.
I would like to draw your attention
to the following point.
We have official methods
of obtaining information
from state bodies.
Unlike personal data,
there are official channels
of obtaining information
from state bodies by legal entities.
This can be obtained
from the Tax Service,
from the Spark information database,
a professional system
for analyzing markets and companies.
There is an opportunity
to obtain official information
from the Redina State Register
on real estate.
There is an opportunity
to obtain official information
from the Trade and Industry Chamber database.
There are many Internet resources
for obtaining information
from the official website
and from the state websites
and specialized websites
that provide information
about a particular organization
or specific areas of activity.
There are information resources
in the form of professional databases.
For example,
there is a company called LexisNexis
and there is a company called
Dunton Brandstreet.
These are international databases
that provide information
and can be used to obtain information.
There is a professional database
on the Russian market.
There is a company called SINZ,
Lex, Lines, RIP, Integrum,
Intralex, Astarte, and many more.
There is a database
that is not official
and is presented on the Russian market.
It can be used to obtain information
about companies that are interested.
It includes manufacturers of goods and services,
statistical reporting,
labyrinth, customs, press,
registration room,
and many more.
At least, it can be used
as a channel to obtain information.
Now I will draw an analytical work
in a few words.
In general,
the work of an analytical
is more complex
than the work of an information specialist.
It is more difficult
to find a good analyst
than a good information specialist.
Unfortunately,
there are not many specialists
in the field of business intelligence
and it is much more difficult to find one.
An analytical work is carried out
in two directions.
The first one is the work of an analyst
as a person.
The second one is the work
of automated analytical systems.
I am quite calm
about automated analytical systems
because they cannot replace
the analytical mind of a person.
They can work well
when they are used as a help
for the work of an analyst.
The basis should be done
for the work of an analyst,
but the automated systems
can handle the processing
of large amounts of information.
They work very well
when it is necessary
to process and track the connections
between a huge number of information resources.
They work very well
according to the scenarios.
If the system is used in a different region
or in a different country,
it will tell you that it is working
according to the scenario.
Such things are well tracked.
The disadvantage of automated systems
is that they do not take into account
many things that an analyst can take into account
such as inner feelings, experience,
voice, intuition, etc.
It is a machine, it works
according to a certain algorithm.
Life is more complicated.
It should happen
according to the automated system.
Ivan Ivanovich went to the sauna
with Petrov and Petrovich
and everything began to go a little differently.
The disadvantage of automated systems
is that they have a tough result.
They can estimate some events
because the automated system
is a computer, it is a unit of zeros.
As a result, we can say
that there will be a scenario A,
or scenario B, or scenario C.
We already put the development scenario
An analyst can say
that there will be not the same scenarios,
but scenarios C or E.
The machine will not be able to do this.
It is a system that works according to the program.
It will say that there will be either the first,
second or third scenario.
This is the end of our seminar.
I hope that the information
that you have learned in this video
will help you to build an effective
corporate security system
and protect yourself from the threats
that exist in your business.
Thank you.